MATT: Hello, and welcome to tonight's episode of
Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice
actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Before we jump into tonight's game, we have some
quick announcements to get over, but welcome
regardless.
LAURA: To get over?
MATT: To get over the announcements, you know, to
make it work. First and foremost, we have our
fantastic returning sponsor for tonight, our
friends for this campaign, D&D Beyond.
ALL: D&D Beyond!
MATT: They've been awesome and, Sam, you have a
few things to say?
SAM: I'm ready. In honor of our impending trip to
Chicago, I'm dedicating this ad for D&D Beyond to
the Second City. One disclaimer: like all accents
I do, my Chicago accent is "harrible."
(laughter)
SAM: (in Chicago accent) Hey there, Grabowskis.
Everybody from Wrigleyville to Lincoln Park is
talking about the D&D Beyond. Whether you're
checking out the Bean, riding the Red Line, or
getting a pop at a Blackhawks game, you're always
thinking about the Dungeons and the Dragons, and
right now, if you enable content sharing on the
D&D Beyond and one of your pals has a Master Tier
subscription, your whole campaign crew can share
all the materials and the content, not just the
DM. Anybody with a Master subscription can do it,
so jump on the "L," take the Eisenhower to the
Kennedy, throw back a PBR or a 312 and grab a deep
dish on me, because life just got a little better
with the D&D Beyond. Oh, and don't forget to call
dibs on the Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes, out next
month. Pre-order yours on the D&D Beyond site and
get all kinds of exclusive stuff and junk. Go Bears!
MATT: Nailed it. Nailed it in one. Thank you, Sam,
and thank you, awesome folks at D&D Beyond.
LAURA: And sorry, Chicago.
SAM: Sausage!
MATT: There's a lot of options, lot of--
TALIESIN: Make sure Sam exits the plane first. Sam
exits the plane first.
MATT: All right. Moving on. Reminder, if you have
Amazon Prime, you can go ahead and combine that
with your Twitch account for Twitch Prime, which
allows you to subscribe, for free, to a Twitch
channel of your choice every month. It doesn't
cost you anything and you get to support your
favorite channel out there, so check it out if you
haven't yet. Critical Recap of course is now
available. Our fantastic Dani Carr hosts a recap
of the campaign two so far. It updates every week
with the episodes. If you haven't seen the one
that was earlier today, actually at the start of
the art reel, well, you're probably going to be
out of place if you didn't watch last episode, but
you can check out recaps or send it to your
friends who want to get updated into the campaign
quickly and watch live with us, if they want to,
to check out Critical Recap. Talks Machina, our
talk after-show about this show is every Tuesday
at 7:00pm Pacific, and the episode about tonight's
episode will be next Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific
time. Our fantastic host, Brian W. Foster, and a
few of us will be there to join and talk about the
events of this evening, so check it out then on
Twitch and Project Alpha. We are, of course, all
leaving tomorrow to fly to the fantastic city of
Chicago for C2E2, so looking forward to seeing a
bunch of you Critters out there for that. We’ll
have panels and signings, it's going to be great.
We're excited, and we’ll see you guys there in a
couple days.
LAURA: Maybe have chosen too many dice tonight.
TRAVIS: What were the words you just used?
LAURA: I just-- okay.
SAM: There's no such thing!
TRAVIS: There's hope.
MATT: Vox Machina: Origins, issue six, the last
comic of this six-issue run, finishes soon. The
date is April 18th. April 18th will be the release
of the final issue of this arc.
SAM: We all die in it.
MATT: Spoilers. Yeah, it's a bit anachronistic
with the campaign, it's weird. The print edition
will be available as an anthology of the entire
six-issue run soon. We'll have details on that as
soon as they’re available, but on April 18th,
check out the final issue of the run. I hope you
enjoy it. All right, let’s see. Other than that,
we have a fantastic charity, 826LA. Definitely
check it out if you haven't had a chance. 826 is
all over the country. They do great work for
teaching creative writing for young adults and
children. They do fantastic work. Check it out if
you haven't. See if you can volunteer, or if not,
help donate. They're amazing. And I believe that's
all for tonight's update, which means that brings
us to tonight's episode of Critical Role.
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
(laughter)
MATT: And welcome back. So, last we left off, the
Mighty Nein had gotten themselves involved in a
number of various factions in the city of Zadash
and decided to buy in to aid the Knights of
Requital in their attempt to get one of the
various powerful lords of the city and the
High-Richter, both seemingly corrupt individuals,
ousted. You had planned forgeries that you were
going to place in their homes at night during an
offsite gala in the Tri-Spires, not too far from
where your breaking and entering was to occur.
Bringing Ulog along, one of the members of the
Knights of Requital, you snuck into Lord Sutan's
house, managed to avoid a number of the pitfalls,
traps, and contents within, going straight to the
bedroom, where you battled the Rug of Smothering,
knocking a couple of you out, but found within a
couple of interesting items that you gathered, and
the wax seal you needed to complete the forgeries
to make this loop come together. From there, you
immediately went across over to the High-Richter's
home. You managed to-- well, the two of you
managed to obscure yourselves to look like the
High-Richter and one of her guards, went right
into the abode. The rest of you met from the
outside, and within the interior of the bedroom,
you discovered Ulog had found papers that proved
that his wife was innocent and that the
High-Richter was basically making an example out
of her, as well as discovering a scroll case that
led to a brief confrontation. After placing the
document required, you went to leave right as the
High-Richter seemed to have arrived. She had a
seemingly confident demeanor as she rung the bell
for her guards, and at that moment, Ulog,
realizing that this was his chance to get
vengeance when no one else was taking a stand,
rushed her, placed a bead within her mouth that
caused a Fireball to detonate, killing them both,
destroying most of the torso of the High-Richter
and Ulog together. At that point, you all began to
radically find a way to flee; the window shattered
out from the gable windows at the top floor. You
heard the guards trying to bash in the front door
to make their way in. After fleeing outside, you
heard this strange sound as this large, dark
sphere seemed to emerge from the distant Zauber
Spire of the Halls of Erudition. It seemed to
collapse in itself, causing the base of the tower
to lose structure, and it began to tip over,
stopping midway, seemingly by some sort of force
field holding it in place. You watched as two
darkened figures leapt from the tower, while two
other ones began to glide off the top of the
tower, firing bolts of energy in various forms of
magical attack in their direction. Using the
chaos, you all fled through the night, darkness,
back towards the sewers where you came. You
managed to watch one of the two dark figures be
slaughtered on the street and be gathered by some
shaded, older figure who was one of the flying
mages who was giving chase. You all ducked down
into the sewer system, and began to notice a trail
of blood amongst the dried sewer run. Putting some
lights up ahead of you at this intersection, which
you had been previously before, you immediately
noticed there was a darkened figure of black
leather armor with various horns and hooks at the
joints, chitinous insect-like in its appearance.
The creature seemed to notice your presence and
called out in a language you couldn't understand.
In an attempt to cast a spell to understand the
language, the creature seemed to deem it as an
aggressive stance and then rushed you. And that's
where we left off, so to begin, I'd like you all
to roll initiative.
ALL: No!
LAURA: That was so fast!
TRAVIS: I am ready, my body is ready.
LAURA: Oh no, I chose poorly.
SAM: Yes, you did. You rushed the process.
LAURA: I did.
MATT: All right, so, 25 to 20?
MARISHA: 21.
MATT: 21? All right. Let’s see here. 20 to 15?
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: 15 to ten?
TALIESIN: 14.
SAM: 11.
LIAM: 11.
MATT: All right, so we have Molly, then we have
Caleb and Nott together. All right. Who's next? I
guess I should say. What'd you roll? All righty.
At the top, we've got Jester.
TRAVIS: Even in love, we are close. Wait, in game.
In love? Fuck it.
MATT: All right. So. Top of the combat round, as
it pulls its jagged blade out of its side and
darts forward in the direction of the group, Beau,
you actually have the first reaction. Seeing this
happen, you immediately jump into action, and
what's your turn?
MARISHA: Anyone speak Dark-Shady-Guy-in-a-Sewer?
MATT: Don’t have time to react. What are you
doing?
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to get out the rope and
climbing hook that I had from earlier, and I'm
going to say, Jester, catch! Oh, wait, you're
super last. Okay, never mind. I'm going to rush to
him and see if I can--
MATT: You look over at Jester, who is holding
Caleb up and is not even paying attention. You're
like, "Shit!"
MARISHA: I'm going to rush to him and see if I can
grapple? I'm so bad at grappling.
TRAVIS: Are you? Is it strength-based? Oh.
MATT: It's athletics-based.
MARISHA: My athletics is okay.
TRAVIS: That's not bad.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to see if I can take the
grappling hook and swing it around and grapple.
MATT: All righty. So go ahead and make your
athletics check.
MARISHA: Okay, big money. Okay, that's all right.
16.
MATT: You actually beat him. Wow. That was a five
plus ten on that one. That was a 15. So you wrap
the rope around and, immediately, it's grappled in
place, unable to move. Although its arms are free,
it cannot seem to pull itself away from you. So
that's your action-- that's your attack.
MARISHA: I'm going to see if I can do a blow to
his temple with my elbow.
MATT: Go for it. Roll for an attack.
MARISHA: This is just an off-handed attack, right?
16.
MATT: 16 does not hit. You swing, and the head
ducks out of the way. It swings wide and it glides
against the edge of the leather mask, but makes no
impact.
TRAVIS: 16 does not hit?
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: 16 does not hit.
MATT: All right, that ends your turn, Beau.
TRAVIS: Did you hear that?
SAM: No, none of it.
TRAVIS: It's very important.
SAM: Did Beau make out with the Crick?
TRAVIS: 16 does not hit.
LAURA: 16 doesn't hit him?
MARISHA: I've got him wrapped and grappled.
SAM: Wow, that was fast.
MATT: The dark figure, arm looking at you, and
looking out in the middle of the space,
concentrates for a second, puts its hand without
the blade in it-- actually, it would be this one,
because it's right-handed-- focuses for a second.
As it does, you watch as this tiny bead of
darkness appears in the center of the area and
expands until a sphere of pitch-black light
completely engulfs this space, and none of you can
see into it or past it. You are blind within this
sphere, and you guys see the whole hallway, it
consumes the creature and Beau.
TRAVIS: Neat trick.
LAURA: Oh no.
TRAVIS: Yeah, darkvision in that is still blind if
you go in there, right?
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck.
LAURA: Oh no. We could hit Beau.
TRAVIS: We're going to.
MATT: That's going to end its turn. That brings us
to Molly.
TALIESIN: I'm going to head up to the other side
of the void. Yeah, I’m going to sit there. I'm
going to start one of the blades up, and I'm going
to hold my attack for anything that crosses my path.
MATT: Okay. So if anything comes within range that
you want to attack--
TALIESIN: Actually, I'll say the minute I see
something, it's Vicious Mockery.
MATT: The minute you see something, Vicious
Mockery, got it. Okay, all right, so you draw your
blade out, you take the damage, and you prepare
Vicious Mockery. Got it. All right. That ends your
turn, Molly. Caleb and Nott.
SAM: We're up already?
MATT: You guys are up on the same turn.
TRAVIS AND MARISHA: It's literally right here.
TRAVIS: The Crick is right between these two?
Beauregard and Molly?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Yeah, you go first.
SAM: Me?!
LAURA: Don’t call it a Crick, it’s insulting, it’s
a derogatory term.
SAM: The Xhorhasian? Okay. Uh. Shit, I don't know. Why
are we attacking this person?
LAURA: Because he attacked us first.
TRAVIS: He’s covered in hooked armor and running
at us aggressively.
MARISHA: Let’s subdue him and talk to him!
LIAM: Okay, so I will go-- I will destroy the
initiative ranking! I will send my globules of
light into the darkness to see if it has any
effect.
MATT: Okay. As the globules go in, they blink
out.
LAURA: Oh no! His spell is higher than your
spell!
LIAM: And then I'm going to back up--
MATT: Did you send all of the globules in there?
LIAM: No, let’s say two of them.
MATT: Okay. The two blink out. The two remain
there, but the other two you sense that they're no
longer in existence. You have two globes lighting
up the area now. It's low light in here.
LIAM: At the same time I will back up my full
movement while Frumpkin runs into the edge of that
darkness.
MATT: All right. Frumpkin peeks in. All right.
Cool. That ends your turn. Nott, what are you doing?
SAM: I'm looking around. I'm not seeing a lot of
attacking going on. They don't speak our language.
Shit. Maybe they speak-- No, I don't know. All
right. I will cast Message, and I will point into
the darkness at the creature. I'll say: Do not
fight us! We are no fans of the empire either! You
can reply to this message. Do I sense a reply?
MATT: You do not sense a reply. But for the hell
of it, go ahead and make a persuasion.
SAM: That's a two minus three.
MATT: Okay. Good to know.
SAM: Oh no, just a two minus one, Matt. I'm still
in the black.
MATT: Perfect. Finishing, Nott, do you want to
move anywhere?
SAM: Yeah, I'll go front and left. Is there
anywhere to hide?
MATT: Not in this area, no. You'd have to get over
here to hide.
SAM: Then I will bonus action dash over there.
MATT: There you go. Good to know. That finishes
Nott and Caleb's turn. Jester, you're up.
LAURA: Me?
MATT: You.
LAURA: Oh gosh! Okay. I'm going to prep the spell
Hold Person and I'm going to wait to cast it until
I can see him.
MATT: Okay. Good to know. You're prepping the
spell. That ends your turn. Fjord, you're up.
Unless you want to move at all.
LAURA: I'm going to move across the sewer across
from Fjord.
MATT: Okay, good to know. Fjord, you have Armor of
Agathys on. You cast that reactionary last time,
so what are you doing?
TRAVIS: Can I look and say: Everyone stay here.
I'm going to see how far this darkness goes. I'm
going to double dash and run down 60 feet in that
direction, hopefully not running into anybody.
I'll stop if I come into the light.
MATT: All right. You stop as soon as you come to
the other side. As you rush past, there's a
(swoosh) in the darkness.
LAURA: Oh no, you get cut!
TRAVIS: That’s okay.
MATT: That is going to be a 25 to hit.
TRAVIS: Pray tell, it doth hit. That's okay, I've
got the armor on. I've got that armor, boo.
MATT: It did roll very high.
TRAVIS: That's all right, he's going to take it.
MATT: So that is ten points of slashing damage.
TRAVIS: Oh shit, all ten?
MATT: But he takes damage back, right?
TRAVIS: He does take ten ice damage back, yeah.
MATT: As you run by, the blade strikes. You manage
to feel it glide off your ice armor and you feel
the blast of ice energy. You, Beau, as you're holding
the rope, feel this spray of dark cold and you
wince at it in the darkness.
MARISHA: I hate these rides!
MATT: But that gets you on the other side.
TRAVIS: Oh, for a bonus action, can I make a
perception check to see if there's anybody on the
other side of the tunnel?
MATT: Sure.
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: Okay. You glance over in the area. In the
darkness, the light's fading at this point, but
you have darkvision. You don't see any other
figure.
TRAVIS: Can I about-face and wait on the other
side of this?
MATT: Sure. Waiting on the opposite side. You got
it. All right. That brings it up to the top. Beau,
you're up.
MARISHA: Okay. I still have him restrained. I
can't see or do shit. Still holding onto the rope,
can I full-on football tackle him and try and push
him out of this dark cloud?
MATT: Try and shove, you mean?
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
MATT: Well, if you have someone grappled, you can
pull them at half movement.
MARISHA: Oh, I'll do that, then. I'm going to
start, with the rope wrapped around, start like a
lifeguard, backing out.
MATT: This way or this way?
MARISHA: Yeah, towards Fjord. I felt Fjord go by,
so I want to try and go towards Fjord.
MATT: Okay, so you manage to push it out of it,
right there, and you're both outside of the darkness.
MARISHA: Look what I caught!
TRAVIS: You caught a big one!
MARISHA: Yeah I did!
LAURA: Oh wait, he's outside the darkness?
TALIESIN: But we can't see him.
LAURA: Oh, but he's across from me, through the
darkness.
MATT: Yeah, it's through the darkness.
MARISHA: Help me subdue him.
TRAVIS: I will when it's my turn.
MATT: Beau, that's your movement. You still have
an action if you want.
MARISHA: I'm going to do another crack to the
forehead with my off-handed attack. That's a
natural one. No! Wait. No, it is. I thought it was
a seven. Thought it might be a seven.
MATT: I'll say as you swing, he manages to loosen
the grip a little bit and the rope comes a little
bit loose. If it attempts to break your grapple,
it's going to have advantage on it.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: At the beginning of its turn, it's now
grappled up in front of you. It pulls its blade
with both of its hands and its head turns back
towards you, now that you're the one who's been
pushing it out, and it begins to unleash two heavy
strikes against you. That's another 25 and that's
going to be an 18.
MARISHA: Both hit.
MATT: Both hit, okay.
TRAVIS: Wooshed!
MARISHA: Ouchies.
MATT: That's going to be 20 points of slashing
damage from the two strikes. As the first blade
impacts across the front of Beau's chest, there's
this strange grayish flash of energy that seems to
scatter from the impact of the blow, and it
congeals off to the side, and you watch as this,
for lack of a better term, a shadow clone of the
creature appears off to the side, behind Fjord, there.
LAURA: Oh no!
MATT: It looks semi-corporeal. It's still holding
the blade, it has the same armor, but it's
somewhat translucent and made of this dark grayish
shadow energy.
MARISHA: Ow.
MATT: Also, Beau, you feel the second blow that
hits you, it seems to carve a letter or some kind
of a symbol on your chest as it pulls back, and as it
does, you feel this burning singe, and you look
down. There's this glowing brand on your chest.
It's not burned into the skin, it appears to be
magically placed, but you have a brand on your
chest that you don't recognize.
LAURA: Oh no, it's like Hex or something.
MATT: That's going to end its turn. Molly, you're
up.
TALIESIN: Have I heard any of this happening
or--?
MATT: Yeah, you've heard them impact. It's just
darkness, but you hear yelling and shouting and
then talking back and forth and then Beau taking
damage and this strange shifting of energy in the
distance. What are you doing?
TALIESIN: Oh, for gods' sakes. I am going to run
straight through the--
MATT: 30. You get to the edge of it. You can
barely peek out. You can continue to move, but
it'll be your action to continue to move.
TALIESIN: No, I'm going to stay at the edge of
this and I'm going to use Vicious Mockery.
MATT: Okay, good to know.
TALIESIN: (demonic voice) Stop where you are!
MATT: That is wisdom, right?
TALIESIN: Yes.
MATT: That's an 18.
TRAVIS: Does Molly do birthday parties for kids?
MATT: I'm pretty sure that passes.
TALIESIN: That passes, yeah.
MATT: The Vicious Mockery seems to be unaffected
by your demonic voice. Sorry.
LAURA: Oh no! We have to talk to him, you
guys. We're not going to beat him.
MATT: He looks pretty wounded already, like
bleeding out the side. It’s your choice in what
you want to do. But he's really powerful, but
really hurt. That finishes your turn, Molly?
Caleb, Nott, what’re you doing?
SAM: Oh, it's us again?
LIAM: Frumpkin will run forward out of the
darkness.
MATT: This way?
LIAM: Towards the action. Yeah, and poke his head
out, actually, closer to-- He'll come out between
Molly's legs. Peek right out there. I'm sitting
down in the muck in the sewer and I'm now watching
and listening to use Comprehend Languages through
Frumpkin.
MATT: Okay, sounds good.
TRAVIS: Non-lethal damage!
MATT: All right, Jester.
SAM: Oh wait, it's me.
MATT: Oh no, it hasn't come yet. You're right
SAM: Although I don't really know what I'm going
to do. Who do I still see? Just Caleb
way in the back. Jester--
MATT: You see Caleb and Jester there and this curl
of darkness--
SAM: Do I hear anything?
MATT: Yeah, you hear all the sounds happening and
the shouting and the impact--
SAM: But I don't know where they're coming from?
MATT: You hear them around that corner. That's all
you know.
SAM: I'm going to go around the darkness. Around
it, counter-clockwise, to see if I can see around
the other side without going into it.
MATT: That's as far as you can get with your
movement. You could bonus if you want to move
around.
SAM: I will bonus dash around, just to look.
MATT: From there you can see your friends. You can
see Fjord. You can see the creature. You can see
the shadow form out of the side. You can see Beau,
with a hint of Molly poking out of the darkness.
SAM: All right, I'm going to shoot the shadow
form.
MATT: All right, go for it. Roll for an attack.
SAM: (yelps) 20.
MATT: A 20 hits. Roll damage.
SAM: Sneak attack?
MATT Sure. Technically, yeah, because these are
considered one space, there.
SAM: Okay. 16.
MATT: Okay, you watch as it dissipates. The impact
hits it, and you see it react slightly, and then
vanish into vapor.
SAM: It was all in my imagination!
(laughter)
SAM: That's it. That's all I got.
MATT: All right, Jester, you're up.
LAURA: I have a question, because I've never
prepped a spell and then not used it. Does that
use the spell?
MATT: It does.
LAURA: That's balls!
MATT: You cast the spell and then hold the very
last moment, waiting to release it, and then if it
doesn't happen, the spell expends. I'm sorry.
LAURA: That is rough. That was a second level.
Okay, can I go and see what's going on around the
big black spot?
MATT: Sure. (counting) 30. You can just manage to
see Nott at the corner of it, and that's about as
much as you can see. The rest of it’s just
darkness still encompassing the corner.
LAURA: I guess I'll use my dash to go forward and
see what’s going on.
MATT: 25 or 30? You could get either of those
spaces there, if you want to.
LAURA: I'll go right there.
MATT: Right there, all right. So now you can see
it, but that's your movement and your action.
LAURA: (screams)
SAM: (screams) I know, right? This is crazy!
(laughter)
MATT: Does that end your turn?
LAURA: I guess so.
MATT: All right. Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: Can I--
LAURA: Oh wait, but I have a bonus action.
MATT: You do have a bonus, yeah.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to use-- wait, wait--
Healing Word on Beau.
MARISHA: Yes, please.
LAURA: I'm going to cast that. Okay, so that is
1d4.
SAM: What will you sing to her? Oh, wait.
LAURA: Nope. Whoa. (childish voice) Three plus
three is six points.
MARISHA: That's great, thank you. Much better.
Ouchies.
LIAM: I like that an eight-year-old boy delivered
those points.
MATT: All right, Beau, it's your turn. No, it's
Fjord's turn, sorry.
MARISHA: No, that's right, Fjord's turn.
TRAVIS: Can I run up behind the assassin and,
using the blunt end of the falchion, the non-edged
side, can I try and strike non-lethal damage into
the back of his head?
MATT: You can. Go for it, roll for an attack.
TRAVIS: Do I get advantage because he's bound?
Grappled?
MATT: You are technically on opposite sides, so I
would say flanked. I'd allow it.
TRAVIS: Okay.
LIAM: Barnacle blow.
TRAVIS: Barnacle blow. 18 plus--
LAURA: Did you know barnacles scream when you
scrape them off of things?
SAM: No. That's not true.
LAURA: No, they do, they go (screams)--
MATT: 24. That hits. Roll damage.
TRAVIS: All right, now, non-lethal--
MATT: Same damage. If you bring it to zero, they
go unconscious, not bleeding out.
TRAVIS: That is 12 points of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage. Whack! You swing across
and slam it from the back of its armor and
(grunts) you hear this exhale of pain out of its
throat. As it hits, it spins around and you watch
as that same energy that came out earlier when it
struck Beau, the blow that you hit it dissipates
into the same energy and then forms into another
shadow version of it behind you.
LAURA: Is he still taking damage?
MATT: He's taken damage. He's getting hurt, he's
hurt pretty bad. Does that finish your turn?
TRAVIS: Yes, it does.
MATT: All right. Top of the round, Beau, you're
up.
MARISHA: Oh God. Okay--
TRAVIS: He's not hurt enough, apparently.
MARISHA: I'm going to first try and tighten my
grip on him.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: And can I try and bulldoze him down to
the ground and pin him to the ground?
MATT: Unfortunately, you need a feat, the Grappler
feat, to then pin somebody.
MARISHA: Cool. I'm going to also try and do
non-lethal damage and knock him on the head.
MATT: Go for it, roll for an attack.
MARISHA: Two attacks. Yeah, first one’s a natural
19. Second one is another natural one.
MATT: The 19 does hit.
TRAVIS: What about the one?
MARISHA: Sorry, 1d8 plus four is--
TRAVIS: 12.
MARISHA: 12, thank you.
MATT: 12? Nice. So as you crack across the head,
you watch the helmet slip a little bit. You can
see a little bit of the jaw beneath the mask now
and the skin itself has a dark blue, purple color.
You see white teeth that have pretty prominent
incisors visible.
MARISHA: Can I take a free action to be like: We
just want to talk to you, damn it!
MATT: You're just shouting, yeah.
TRAVIS: Did you hear that important detail about
the enemy that he just revealed?
SAM: Uh, nope. We were talking. What was the
detail? I mean (coo) what was the detail?
TRAVIS: Pretty sizable incisors, sharp fucking
teeth.
SAM: (cooing)
LAURA: Whoa.
(laughter)
MATT: All right, Beau, is that the end of your
turn?
LAURA: Sorry, Travis. It's important stuff that
we're talking about.
MATT: All right, it is now the creature's turn.
The creature is going to swing one strike at Beau
in front.
TALIESIN: Blood Maledict. With the added--
SAM: Yeah, drop that BM on him!
LIAM: You just did that like the glitter guy.
Blood Maledict.
MATT: Disadvantage.
TALIESIN: Disadvantage on that.
MATT: Well, you prevented a natural 20, that's
good. So that's 19.
MARISHA: Still hits.
MATT: Still hits. That is--
LAURA: That was good that she didn't get critted.
MATT: Ten points of slashing damage.
LAURA: Are you still up?
MARISHA: Nope.
SAM: Oh! Wait, we just healed her.
LAURA: I did, but not for that much.
MATT: Beau falls to the ground unconscious. The
rope goes loose. At which point, the creature
turns around towards you, Fjord. As you focus on
its face you feel this swing from behind as the
shadow version is going to try--
TRAVIS: Nonlethal!
SAM: Not in the face!
MATT: That's going to be 21.
TRAVIS: That hits.
SAM: (high-pitched) Watch out for the teeth
(coo).
MATT: That is nine points of slashing
damage and it vanishes. The impact, the actual
blow hits and discards itself into the impact of
the blow.
MARISHA: I don't think he wants to talk to us.
LAURA: It discards itself.
MATT: Let's see here. It's now going to swing
forward and head over to make a strike at you.
LAURA: Why me?! I didn't do anything to you.
TRAVIS: Nonlethal. That's only a 14, no, 15.
MATT: 15 does not hit.
TALIESIN: He still has disadvantage.
MATT: Did you amplify it?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I did.
MATT: Okay, that brings it to 19.
LAURA: 19 probably fucking hits. Yes.
MATT: Okay, that is eight points of slashing
damage.
LAURA: Hellish Rebuke!
SAM and TRAVIS: Ooh.
LAURA: I'm going to say: I'm not your enemy, you
guy with big teeth. But I say it in Infernal,
because you know.
TALIESIN: No, that was good.
MATT: That's a constitution saving throw for that
one, is it?
LAURA: Sure, I don't know.
SAM: (singing) I still get hellish.
MATT: That's a 12. What's your DC on that?
LAURA: Charisma is your spellcasting ability for
this.
MATT: What's your charisma bonus?
LAURA: This is where it gets complicated, I've got
a plus one mod to charisma.
MATT: All right, so your DC with that would be
11. So yeah, it succeeds. It takes half-damage.
You still do damage.
LAURA: Oh okay. Great. Which is 2d10, right?
MATT: 2d10.
LAURA: That's a lot. (coo) That's a lot. Oh,
eight. So four.
MATT: Four points, all right.
SAM: It's dead.
MATT: You see this blast of ice come out as you're
shouting Infernal at it. It strikes into the armor
and pierces parts of its shoulder as it (grunts).
It goes limp for a certain point, you see it flex
angrily. It's looking really rough. As the attack
hits you, another one appears over there.
LAURA: How many slashing damage did you say you
did to me?
MATT: Eight.
LAURA: Eight, got it.
TRAVIS: That's a dope feature, whatever that is.
MATT: All righty, that's going to end its turn.
Molly you're up.
TALIESIN: If I run up behind it, do I then get
advantage because he's flanked?
MATT: Yep.
TALIESIN: I'm going to do that.
LAURA: Nonlethal.
TALIESIN: It's all nonlethal once you stabilize it
after you put it down to the ground. All right,
first strike with the--
MATT: That's actually not true.
TALIESIN: No, I know. I'm paying attention. First
strike with the scimitar is a natural 20!
TRAVIS: Hey!
TALIESIN: Does that do a thing then? For him or is
it just double damage?
MATT: It's double damage.
TALIESIN: Okay, nothing weird in that.
MATT: That's both the weapon and the--
LAURA: You get all your grit points back, aren't
you excited?
TALIESIN: Yeah, no. I miss things. I don't get
special damage to him, do I?
MATT: As a reaction, he's going to use Transpose
Echo and shift over with that guy.
SAM: Did he just--
MATT: You watch as suddenly there's a shimmy of
shadow energy and he switches places with the
shadow version of himself. You end up striking the
shadow thing, which is dissipated from the impact.
LAURA: Bitch.
TRAVIS: That is some white elephant gift shit,
right there.
TALIESIN: So I don't have enough movement to go
for another.
MATT: (counting) You do.
TALIESIN: Run in, and if I can flank him great. If
not I'm still going to take my shot.
MATT: Yeah, you can flank him actually.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: So you strike the one. Angrily spin around
and then catch it behind, where you see him
appear. Filling the spot where his shadow clone
was.
TALIESIN: That's 21 to hit.
MATT: That hits, roll damage.
TALIESIN: 22. Oh god. I don't get the d6 on that,
so that's five points of damage.
MATT: Five points of damage. How do you want to do
this?
TALIESIN: I'm going to bounce off the wall, after
the other one hit, and spinning around and finally
taking him, and knocking him out with the little
spike on the side of the sword. Right in the helmet.
MATT: As you spin the sword around, coming down
(crack) you hit across the side of the head and
the body collapses and falls to the ground
unconscious.
TALIESIN: Someone go deal with Beau.
MATT: The darkness vanishes.
LAURA: I run over to Beau and I cast Cure Wounds
on her.
TRAVIS: I start patting the body down. Molly help
me.
TALIESIN: I'm pulling the armor off.
SAM: Caleb we need you.
LAURA: Should I? No I'll just cast that at
regular. I cast Cure Wounds on you.
TALIESIN: Did I feel anything when I hit it?
LAURA: Seven points.
TALIESIN: Did it set off the blood hunter spider
sense at all?
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: All right. Just curious.
MATT: All right, so as you all--
LAURA: Is he awake still or does he--
MATT: Unconscious.
LAURA: Let's tie him up! Quick tie him up!
TRAVIS: I got 50 feet of hempen rope.
TALIESIN: I got 50 feet of hempen rope.
LAURA: Let's tie him up real good.
TALIESIN: With Beau's.
TRAVIS: Maybe no bows.
TALIESIN: I was going to say with Beau's rope,
because she's also got the hook.
MARISHA: (strained) Oh yeah, I've got a-- I can
also tie bows in my, Beau's, rope.
LAURA: But also bows are really cool. We should
give him some, because he's got all these barbs
and they'd be really fun to decorate.
MARISHA: Wait, you want to put my bo in bows--
TALIESIN: There's no bows.
LAURA: Just tie him up quick!
LIAM: This language spell runs out in an hour,
let's speed this up.
MATT: You strip him of everything he has. There's
the armor you pull off, there's the blade and the
sheath. There's a pair of dark, jagged black boots
that are pretty cool, three daggers that are all
hidden in pockets in the armor, and a pouch that
is hidden within the plating of the leather armor
that is filled with quite a few coin if you go and
inspect within.
LAURA: Is anybody writing all of this stuff down?
TRAVIS: Yes, yes I am.
MARISHA: Boots, something.
TRAVIS: Sword, sheath, black boots, yup.
MARISHA: Three daggers and lots of gold.
LAURA: Oh, I am the inventory person. Shit.
MATT: So that gets you 116 platinum pieces.
SAM: Whoa, platinum?
MATT: Yes.
TALIESIN: I'm going to put 116 platinum.
LAURA: You weren't even writing it down.
MATT: And 12 gold pieces.
TRAVIS: Got it.
TALIESIN: 12 gold. 116 platinum!
MARISHA: Remember when we lost 500 platinum at the
bottom of the Bag of Holding last campaign for
months? That was funny.
LIAM: Between the couch cushions?
MARISHA: Yes. Oh that's where I put that.
SAM: Each platinum is worth 100 gold, right?
MATT: Ten gold.
LIAM: Do they say "In Xhorhas We Trust" on them?
MATT: No, they are standard imperial platinum.
MARISHA: We universally forgot it, as a team.
TRAVIS: All right, so we get him nice and tied up,
right?
TALIESIN: We can't stay here. We've got to move.
SAM: Why do we have to move? We're in the sewers.
Who's going to come down here?
TALIESIN: Everybody who's looking for him.
SAM: Oh. That's fair.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
SAM: What if we hide? Could we hide, could we put
up an illusion to hide?
TALIESIN: We can start heading back in our
direction at the very least. Get further away from--
MATT: There is also the dodecahedron that is the
slow undulating gray glow that he was holding,
before dropping it and rushing towards you.
LIAM: Oh, let me take a look at it.
SAM: Won't you lose your other spell if you do the
spell?
LIAM: What? Does anybody have a torch or anything?
No.
SAM: Okay.
LAURA: I didn't write down, did you really write
down that stuff?
TRAVIS: Yeah, sword, sheath, three daggers, pair
of black boots that look cool, 116 platinum and 12 gold.
SAM: She got sword, so far.
LIAM: Okay, I need ten minutes. Ten minutes with
this thing. I'm going to, as a ritual spell, cast Identify.
MATT: To which object?
LIAM: On the dodecahedron.
MATT: Okay. You focus on it for a bit. It is
definitely magic.
LIAM: (whispering) But it's next level shit.
MATT: The magic contained is outside of the
parameters of the spell. You're not entirely
certain what it's capable of. There's something
alien about its magic source that your Identify
spell is unable to pierce.
LIAM: Oh.
MATT: As you focus more and more on it, your brain
begins to open up into, what feels like, space.
Endless expanse and it begins to scare you. Just
the endless infinity of nothingness and you pull
back and (gasp), "Oh that's... interesting." It seems
very powerful, whatever it is. But you don't know
quite how it works.
LIAM: Yeah, I throw a dirty rag over it.
MARISHA: Molly, do you think this is the weapon
from the crime scene, that we saw? That big glowy,
black--
TALIESIN: I don't know it seems kind of small,
doesn't it?
LIAM: It is extremely powerful, whatever it is.
MARISHA: See? Extremely powerful.
MATT: Do you want to continue and concentrate on
it?
LIAM: No.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Can I take his helmet off, and look at his
face?
MATT: Sure. You took the helmet off when you took
the armor off.
LAURA: Just kidding. So that's one of the things
we have as well.
MATT: The helmet is part of the armor. The armor
is very well made. With the armor removed, you can
see the deep blue, somewhat purple colored skin.
It resembles, actually, you if a bit darker.
Whitish gray hair that goes just past the
shoulders. It was tied up in a tight bun into the
helmet and tumbles past once it was pulled off.
Dark elf, definitive drow.
MARISHA: Does it look like the same color from the
gauntleted hand that we saw in the alley?
MATT: Correct, what you thought you saw the
fingers dipped in the color was actually just
gloves that didn't have the fingers covered.
TRAVIS: Oh wow.
LAURA: Is it a boy?
MATT: It is a male, yes.
LIAM: What do we want our next step to be?
SAM: We have to ask him some questions. But we
have to leave, right?
MARISHA: Let's wake him up.
MATT: The more you think on it, the more you know
there's more to this device. It scares you, but
there was something you were close to there.
Something you were close to learning. You're not
sure what lies beyond that threshold. You keep
thinking on it.
MARISHA: Super baity.
SAM: One more opportunity.
TRAVIS: (singing) Might as well jump. Jump!
(laughter)
MARISHA: (singing) Go ahead and jump.
MATT: It's up to you.
LIAM: (sighs)
MARISHA: By the way, last time Travis did this, I
jumped off of a cliff and splatted as a goldfish.
LIAM: I was going to say, let's wake up the elf.
TRAVIS: Okay. Yeah that's fair.
LAURA: I'm going to pull his hair out of his face
so he can see us.
MATT: Okay, he's still unconscious. There’s blood
curling out the mouth and nose. He is beaten.
TRAVIS: If we turn him in, it’ll take attention
off of us in case we have trouble getting out of
the sewer. But maybe we need to know who this is.
TALIESIN: Who are these people who caught this
person would be another question they might ask.
We got to be careful.
TRAVIS: True, good point.
MARISHA: We could be heroes. Turn him in, invaders
in chains.
TALIESIN: No one is a hero for very long.
LAURA: What is the name of the romantic lead in
the romance novel?
MARISHA: That is true, these guys were called
Cricks.
SAM: Oskar?
LAURA: No, no, not my romance novel. The one about
these guys.
LIAM: Well I don't remember it, but Caleb does
because he has photographic memory. So Matt has to
tell me--
(laughter)
MARISHA: If anything was true in the porn, you can
always trust porn to be honest.
LIAM: There is always some truth to porn.
MARISHA: There's always truth to porn.
TRAVIS: At least one basic truth.
MARISHA: This guy is from the Dwendalian Empire,
from the Julous Dominion.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Is that right?
MATT: No. Well, the main character of the book
was. The Julous Dominion was what once ruled the
Marrow Valley.
MARISHA: Remember the porn. It was a very awkward
reading.
LAURA: The Marrow Valley.
MARISHA: The Marrow Valley. What was--
TALIESIN: That was a metaphor.
MATT: So yeah. So the main character was not
Xhorhasian.
LIAM: Caleb says.
MATT: They were a general in the army of Julous.
Which was--
MARISHA: The army of Julous.
MATT: Yeah, the Julous Dominion. Which as during
the conflict, before the Dwendalian Empire
conquered it.
MARISHA: Oh, conflict between the Julous Dominion
and the Dwendalian Empire. And she was a general
for the Dwendalian empire.
MATT: Right.
LAURA: Can I heal him and wake him up?
SAM: Yes we need to-- yes.
LAURA: Are you guys ready?
MARISHA: She was super in love with this general
named Theo.
LAURA: Theo.
MARISHA: Theo.
SAM: How far are we from the entrance, where we
came down into the sewer?
MATT: You're maybe 150 feet from entrance of where
you came down and you're a few hundred feet from
the way that leads back up into the city, of the
Interstead Sprawl.
SAM: Should I go back up to the entrance and make
sure we're not being followed or anything?
TRAVIS: Sure, if you want to. Unless you have any
questions.
SAM: Questions? I don't know anything about this
shit.
TRAVIS: Yeah, go keep watch.
SAM: Okay. I'm going to head back and look at the
entrance.
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: Seven.
TRAVIS: Plus?
SAM: No.
MATT: Plus no. Okay. You look past and you can see
some folks darting back and forth occasionally
across the end of the alleyway. Otherwise you just
see the dark, shadowed walls and the dark sky
above with the cloud cover. No one seems to be
immediately coming towards it for the time being.
LIAM: Jester, my idea is, you know, most people
are not like that crownsguard bastard. Most people
like cats, so maybe if Frumpkin woke him up, you
know, with a couple of licks, he would wake up in
a better--
LAURA: Most people like me too, though.
LIAM: That's also true.
LAURA: And I'm blue and he's blue.
LIAM: It's all yours.
LAURA: I pat him on his little cheek, and I say
wake up: Theo. Wake up.
MATT: Okay. It takes a few moments, but
eventually, he (mumbling) (grunts).
LAURA: (whispers) Hi!
MATT: Spits out a bit of blood on to the front of
his chest and the rope and (grunts)
LAURA: You're not dead, because we didn't even
want to fight you, but you attacked us.
MATT: (speaks in Undercommon) And so you've
cast--
LIAM: Comprehend Languages. I understand
everything.
MATT: The essence is "Stupid empirical scum.
You'll get nothing."
LIAM: He thinks we're with the empire.
LAURA: We are not with the empire. Look at us!
LIAM: Do we have any of that Crownsguard armor?
Didn't we collect some?
MATT: Make a, I'll say a persuasion check, because
you haven't technically allied yourself with the
empire entirely, though you are part of the
empire. You, specifically, are not part of the
empire. You did not grow up here.
TALIESIN: Do we need a little greasing?
LAURA: Where's my persuasion? Where's persuasion?
TALIESIN: There it is.
LAURA: Where?
TALIESIN: You just rolled over it.
LAURA: Oh. Nine.
MARISHA and TRAVIS: Nein!
MATT: His eyes narrow towards you and still bears
the incisor fangs. (breathes heavily)
LAURA: Oh, Theo, what big teeth you have!
LIAM: Jester, give me one of the Crownsguard
helmets from your backpack.
LAURA: I pull it out.
LIAM: I take this helmet. I set it on the ground
in front of the elf, and then I start to piss on it.
SAM: The language of love.
TRAVIS: Just wang out.
MATT: The right eyebrow curls up into a very
confused expression.
LIAM: Frumpkin comes over and also pisses on it.
LAURA: That's gross.
TALIESIN: Oh, for god's sakes. You can't reason
with angry people.
LAURA: I give a pastry to him.
MATT: (sounds of disgust)
LAURA: It's good to eat.
MATT: As you're shoving this pastry into his face,
you can see right now, he appears demoralized,
ready to lash out at the first moment's notice,
and has seemed to have calmed a bit from the
confusion of the displays in front of him, but
doesn't seem to be buying into any of what you're
saying at the moment.
LIAM: I shake it and put it away.
LAURA: Can he understand us? Can you understand
me?
SAM: It walks away.
MATT: "I can understand this."
(gasps)
MARISHA: Oh, he does speak Common.
LAURA: That's great.
TALIESIN: Should I expedite this?
TRAVIS: Please.
LIAM: Can you, yeah?
TALIESIN: Come on, friend. We just need to ask you
a few questions and we'll let you be on your way,
as long as there's nothing too inappropriate
happening. Devil's Tongue.
LAURA: Devil's Tongue.
MATT: That is a...
TALIESIN: Wisdom save, second level.
MATT: That would be a nine. That does not succeed.
Okay. You watch the eyes gloss over for a second.
Wait, hold on a second. Where's my Player's
Handbook? Do you have it real fast?
LAURA: Oh I do.
MATT: Here I'll grab this one real fast.
LAURA: Sorry, I was sitting on it.
MATT: Double-check one more thing.
TALIESIN: Are you trying to weasel out of my--
MATT: I am trying to confirm. One of the racial
traits of the elves, if I recall, is they have--
LAURA: Oh, a resistance to charm?
TALIESIN: Or advantage.
MARISHA: Half-elves did. I remember team
half-elves did.
MATT: Yep. Advantage on saving throws on being
charmed.
TALIESIN: So you get one more roll.
MATT: I do.
TRAVIS: Roll low, roll low!
MATT: That's going to be a 12.
TALIESIN: It's a wisdom save, so it's ten plus my
wisdom modifier?
MATT: It's eight plus-- yeah.
TALIESIN: So, that's 13.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
MATT: 13. Still fails. All righty. So as the eyes
glass over for a minute, the snarling and the
tension in the muscles relax for a minute.
TALIESIN: We're not with the empire. We're private
individuals just trying to get by. We wandered
into a lot of chaos, so we just want to know what
we're getting wrapped up in right now.
MATT: "Untie me."
MARISHA: No.
LAURA: You attacked us.
MATT: "You rushed me and began to assault me."
LAURA: No, we didn't! You came at us with your
sword out.
LIAM: I cast a spell so I could try to understand
your tongue.
MATT: He keeps looking at you. It's ignoring the
rest of them. It goes, "What happened to the
"Beacon?"
TALIESIN: What's the Beacon?
MATT: "The Beacon." It looks around.
LIAM: It's under a dirty rag.
MATT: Right. It's just glancing about.
TALIESIN: It's right there. Is it important?
MATT: "Yes. Very."
TALIESIN: Why? I'm just trying to understand,
friend. Help me help you.
TRAVIS: You Jerry Maguire motherfucker. Help me,
help you.
MATT: "We are here to retrieve the Beacon from the
empirical bastards in Zadash. We had it. I have
"it. I don't know what happened to my companion,
but, so far, I am successful. And I need it."
TALIESIN: What is the beacon for?
MATT: "The beacon is part of our culture. The
beacon allows the rebirth."
TALIESIN: The rebirth of what?
MATT: "Of our people."
LAURA: That's important. People need to be born.
TALIESIN: This all sounds very complicated to me.
I am personally of the opinion that we just let
everything go.
MARISHA: Do you mean rebirth or do you mean
reanimate? Let's be honest here.
MATT: It doesn't even pay attention to Beau.
TALIESIN: My friends are your friends.
TRAVIS: I've got one job on this ship. It's
stupid, but I'm going to do it!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: You're making a very, very good
argument, and my friends are your friends. We're
all here to help.
MATT: "The Beacons are sacred. I have lived four
lifetimes. As long as the Beacons remain, me and
"my people will live more."
LAURA: Do you make babies still?
MATT: "We do."
LAURA: Okay. And they live as long as the Beacon
lives too?
MATT: "The souls continue. With each rebirth, the
memories retain."
LIAM: What is your intention for the people in
this empire, this kingdom?
MATT: "What is the intention of the empire?"
LIAM: No, your people's intention, for all those
who live here.
MATT: "We live. We worship. We learn. We die. We
are reborn until we are perfect."
MARISHA: Oh jeez.
MATT: "We find more Beacons."
LAURA: There's more of them?
MARISHA: Is this thing what we saw take out half
the Zauber Spire?
MATT: "No. That was my companion." You see at this
point, now, as friendly as it has been, there's
this look of,
"I might be saying too much and I don't trust the
most of you still.”
TALIESIN: Sorry to tell you, but I think your
friend may have got hit on the end of something
fierce and may not have made it. I thought I saw
someone fly by and take him out. I'm sorry.
MATT: "That's all right."
MARISHA: Is it just the two of you or were there
more?
MATT: "For this mission, just the two of us. We
had help, but..."
TRAVIS: Where are you trying to get to?
MATT: "Out. Of the city."
MARISHA: Who was your help, if it was just the two
of you?
MATT: "I've said too much. Either kill me or let
me go."
MARISHA: It has to be someone in the city. Who was
it? You don't tell us, we'll find out one way or
another. I can tell you that right now.
TALIESIN: We're trying to fight corruption in this
city in our own way. We just need to know who we
can trust and who we can't.
MARISHA: You can either help us get there faster,
or we'll just take the long goddamn way.
MATT: "You cannot trust anybody in this city. You
cannot trust yourselves. Anyone who has not bound
"themselves. They are the enemy."
LAURA: To the beacon? What do you bind yourself
to?
MATT: There's a moment of very tightly closed
eyes. The jaw clenches as he looks about.
TALIESIN: I know my vote, but anybody else?
LAURA: I thought he was going to answer. I thought
he was going to answer!
TRAVIS: You want to let him go, don't you?
TALIESIN: Eh, not our problem.
LAURA: I think we should let him go. I think he's
handsome.
MARISHA: He looks like a good reward to me.
Unless, under one condition. You tell us who you
were working with in here.
TRAVIS: Yeah, tell us. We'll let you go.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
MATT: "I cannot. Our allies in the empire are
short on the list."
MARISHA: Is it Kara? Dolan?
TRAVIS: Ulog? Checking his face for reactions to
any of them.
MARISHA: Exactly. Anything? Any reactions?
MATT: That would be an insight check.
TRAVIS: Can I help her?
MARISHA: Yeah, can me and Fjord tag team this?
MATT: Sure.
MARISHA: Yeah, let's just each roll. We're just
going down the list.
Fucking fuck.
TRAVIS: 15?
MARISHA: Better than me. 13.
MATT: 13.
SAM: Whispers on a 15?
MATT: He's not in a very strong place. The charm
spell is--
TALIESIN: Charm spells are mean.
LAURA: How long does charm spell work?
TALIESIN: Like an hour.
LAURA: That's great. I've got it, too.
TALIESIN: I can do two people.
SAM: Liam, what are you looking forward to in
Chicago? Is it the sausages? The brats? The
deep-dish?
LIAM: Yeah, you know that deep-dish pizza there.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I feel like we've kept him up long
enough. We don't have to get him out, we just have
to give him the chance to get out. I think we
should do that. He's given us everything.
MATT: "And give me the beacon."
MARISHA: What? He hasn't told us shit.
LAURA: Will the beacon hurt people, though?
MATT: "No."
LAURA: I'm going to insight check him.
MATT: Sure.
LAURA: 14.
MATT: 14. Kind of hard to read on this one.
LIAM: What will you do if we say no?
MATT: "I will strike you down where you stand and
take it. It's too important."
TALIESIN: That's rude. I'm going to start moving
towards untying him unless anyone's got any--
MARISHA: Just leave him. He can get out himself.
He's a smart guy.
TALIESIN: If we're all good--
LIAM: We leave him only if we leave the beacon
with the Gentleman, but if we leave him on his own--
LAURA: (gasps) Was it the Gentleman? Is he who
helped you in?
MARISHA: Ooh, was it the Gentleman?
TALIESIN: Insight check. Do I get advantage
because he's friends with me?
MATT: Yeah, I'll say. Yeah. Why not?
SAM and TALIESIN: Double insight.
LAURA: Ooh, that's not bad.
TALIESIN: That's not bad. 21.
MATT: 21.
SAM: More whispers! Just whispers. It's all
whispers. Oh, guys. D&D Beyond, right?
LAURA: I mean, D&D Beyond.
SAM: What is there to say that hasn't already been
said by me?
TALIESIN: Personally, this seems like more than I
feel like taking on right now. I say we walk away,
and you'll know that our silence means that we
were trustworthy in the first place.
LAURA: And then you can be our friends later.
MATT: "And you'll leave the beacon? Free me. Give
me the beacon."
MARISHA: We could pawn this thing. Right now.
It'll be off of our tail in like two minutes.
TALIESIN: Have you ever pawned anything before?
LIAM: I think that this thing is a great
responsibility.
TRAVIS: We removed his armor. We should give him
something to leave in so he's not just walking
buck through the city.
TALIESIN: Now we're getting silly.
MARISHA: What if he comes back and destroys us
with this thing in six months? Two months?
LAURA: He won't. He likes us, right? You won't do
it? Will you promise not to hurt us later?
TRAVIS: No, he just said he's going to kill us if
we don't give it to him.
LAURA: But what if we give it back though?
MATT: "You give it back. We go our separate ways.
I run."
LIAM: I think we should kill him.
TRAVIS: Really?
LIAM: Seems dangerous to me.
LAURA: Oh, man. This is a really tough one.
MARISHA: And super different than five seconds ago
when you said we should just let him go.
TRAVIS: Why don't we leave it up to him? We untie
him, he comes at us bros, we take him down. We're
giving him a chance at freedom.
LAURA: What about the beacon?
TRAVIS: He doesn't get the beacon.
TALIESIN: He's not going to leave without the
beacon.
LAURA: I think we give him the beacon and we walk
away.
TRAVIS: He'll come after it. I know.
LAURA: Maybe you can look at the beacon one more
time and try to see what it is, and then we can
give it back to him.
TRAVIS: Yeah, let's do that. No?
MARISHA: Does it scare you that much?
LIAM: It does.
LAURA: Can I look at the beacon?
TALIESIN: Did he get worried when we said we were
going to take a look at it one more time?
MATT: He didn't seem to flinch.
MARISHA: If it's that scary, then what do you want
to do with it?
TRAVIS: Can anybody else concentrate on it?
LIAM: If we leave this gentleman here and take the
beacon, it becomes his life's work to find us.
TRAVIS: Agreed.
LIAM: So we either leave him and it, or we take it
and kill him.
TALIESIN: Agreed.
MARISHA: Or we can take it now and kill him
later.
TALIESIN: No.
MARISHA: Just saying, it could be like a fun game.
TALIESIN: You first.
TRAVIS: I won't speak for anybody in the group,
but I'm not taking his life. So, if someone feels
motivated, I'll just walk over this way. And I
start walking back the way we came.
LAURA: (whispers) Give it back to him.
LIAM: I don't-- why are you--
LAURA: You have it!
LIAM: I don't. It’s on the ground under the dirty
rag, ja.
LAURA: Oh, it is? I go and look at it.
MATT: Okay, as you pull the cloth up and look, the
grey light energy spills out from underneath, and
you watch as it looks over, and it can see it now.
Its eyes go wide, and you feel the soft undulating
low hum to it.
LAURA: (hums) I hum back at it.
MATT: Okay, you match the tone.
LAURA: What does he do when we’re looking at it?
TALIESIN: I walk over and scrape my radiant sword
against the orb.
LIAM: I'm going to take a few steps back.
MATT: As you do, he's like (growling).
TALIESIN: Just seeing. Just going to give it a
little tap. I’m not cutting it, I'm just tapping it.
MATT: Okay, it taps. It sounds like you're tapping
some sort of a stone or rock.
TALIESIN: Does the radiant energy have any effect
on it?
MATT: No, it does not.
TRAVIS: Well, I don't know what it is. And if
you're not going to look, what use do we have for it?
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Look, I know some people. Why don't we
bag this thing up and we'll take it right over to--
LIAM: These two individuals were responsible for
blowing a hole in that tower, yes?
MARISHA: Okay, I'm not talking about anything--
LIAM: I'm not contradicting what you're saying,
I'm sorry. When you say, "What use do we have for
"it?" It's a dangerous thing.
LAURA: It didn't do it. The beacon wasn't the
thing that did it.
MARISHA: New plan.
LAURA: What?
MARISHA: New plan. All right, we can't decide if
we should leave him, or take the thing, or take
the thing but leave him, or kill him, or-- why
don't we take both him and the thing?
TRAVIS: And what do we do with him?
MARISHA: We go to the Cobalt Soul. Drop him off.
Front doorstep, leave a note, "You're welcome."
LAURA: They're going to kill him, though.
MARISHA: And apparently so are we? Or at least
talking about it?
LIAM: What do they do there? I don't know much
about the Cobalt Soul. What can you tell me?
MARISHA: They hold information. They've got a
decent amount of relics and spell books and things
that they might know.
TRAVIS: And it would endear us to the city.
MARISHA: And they're technically a little bit
separate from the city. They're kind of not
necessarily a part of the empire. They kind of
make sure the empire stays in check.
TALIESIN: What's your name again, friend?
MATT: (sighs) This long, heavy sigh. Hearing all
this conversation and not knowing who to trust,
even in spite of your spell. "Thuron."
TALIESIN: Help us out, here. I'm Molly, and I--
Give my friends more to go with. Give them
something, some reason to trust you, to make sure
that this is not going to come back and bite us in
the ass. I mean, that's what we're looking for,
here, is a reason for us to be able to walk away.
MATT: "Then walk away."
LIAM: Question. When he said Thuron, did I hear
Thuron, or did I hear some other word, like eagle,
or swift, or something?
MATT: The name itself does have meaning in
Undercommon. It is a name.
LIAM: So I didn't hear Bob, right? Did it have
a--
MATT: No. The nuance to the word, from what you
can best understand, is-- it means "blessed second
"born" is the best I can find the right words for
it.
TALIESIN: Should send him to a monastery.
TRAVIS: I'm good either way.
TALIESIN: How did you lose the thing in the first
place that you need to get it back?
MATT: "It was taken from Xhorhas."
TALIESIN: By who?
MATT: (chuckles darkly) Grins and looks up. "From
your fucking wizards."
TALIESIN: I don't have any wizards. Well, I have
one wizard, but--
LAURA: He doesn't like the other wizards.
TALIESIN: Well, to be fair, they are kind of
arseholes.
LAURA: It was stolen from him! We should just let
him have it.
TALIESIN: How did they take it?
MATT: "I don't know the details."
TALIESIN: Did they come to you?
MATT: "I was just sent to retrieve it. I don't
know all the answers."
TALIESIN: Sent by whom?
MATT: "By my empress."
TALIESIN: Your empress? Which empress would this
be?
MATT: "You don't know much, do you?"
TALIESIN: I don't know anything. It's part of my
charm.
MATT: "Empress Leylas Krynn."
LAURA: Leylas Krynn. Did I say it right?
MATT: You did.
LAURA: Nice!
LIAM: Same question.
MATT: Question was?
LIAM: Context of the name. Anything?
MATT: No, actually, that one is a proper name.
TRAVIS: Leylas Krynn?
LAURA: Empress o' the drow? Or o' Marrow Valley?
MATT: Well, the Marrow Valley is in the empire.
LAURA: Oh, right. My facts are--
MARISHA: The Dwendalian Empire?
LIAM: No, we're in the Dwendalian Empire.
MATT: You guys are in the Dwendalian Empire.
MARISHA: No, wait, sorry. I meant Xhorhas.
MATT: Xhorhas is to the east of here. It's the
wastes to the east of the Ashkeeper Peaks.
MARISHA: Right.
LAURA: So that's where you're from? Xhorhas?
MATT: He nods, slowly.
LAURA: And the Dwendalian Empire is fighting you?
And they're stealing your babies? Because this is
the only way you can have babies?
MATT: He stares at you, confused.
LAURA: It all makes perfect sense to me.
TALIESIN: I say we give him his armor, and that
thing, and be on our way. This is none of our concern.
LAURA: I say we give him the thing and let him
walk around naked, because that's better.
TALIESIN: That could be funny, too.
LIAM: That's close to a death sentence. How about
we give him some crownsguard armor?
TRAVIS: Fair call.
LAURA: Then you can get out.
MATT: "But you will give me the beacon?"
TALIESIN: Well, we're not going to give it to you.
We're just going to leave it here. I think that's
fair, we didn't give him anything. We found him,
he attacked us, we defeated him, we walked about
our way.
TRAVIS: I'm all right.
MARISHA: We're letting him leave without the
beacon?
LAURA: We're leaving the beacon on the ground,
Beau.
LIAM: I suggest, leave it for him.
MARISHA: And he's not going to take it?
TALIESIN: We don't know what he's going to do.
TRAVIS: (whispering dramatically) Yes, he's going
to take it.
TALIESIN: I'm all right with this.
LAURA: I'm okay with this.
TALIESIN: Anyone else?
LIAM: I defer to the group.
SAM: I'm drunk, 120 feet away.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Unless you've got a strong opinion
otherwise, Caleb, on that thing.
LIAM: Say what?
TALIESIN: Unless you've got a strong opinion on
that thing otherwise.
LIAM: I am able to tell a great many things about
a great many things, and that is beyond me.
LAURA: Maybe you should stare at it some more.
TALIESIN: You don't have to stare at it some more.
If it's beyond you, then it's beyond me.
TRAVIS: Unless you really want to. Huh? Do you? Do
you?
LIAM: I do not.
TRAVIS: Open the door.
TALIESIN: I say we just let it go.
TRAVIS: (singing) Take a look...
LAURA & MARISHA: (singing) It's in a book, Reading
Rainbow!
TALIESIN: Okay, we're getting into singing. No.
I'm calling it, then?
MARISHA: I still say we load up both of these
guys.
LAURA: I pull out-- oh wait, you know what, I
think I don't have full armor for the crownsguard
because I gave them away. I gave them back.
MATT: Yeah, you returned them.
LAURA: We don't got no crownsguard armor.
TALIESIN: Just give him his bits.
MARISHA: Okay, he definitely does not get a secret
disguise to help him get through the city.
TRAVIS: We're giving him everything but the black
boots, the sword and the sheath and his money.
LIAM: We're taking his shit.
TALIESIN: Give him just the armor.
LAURA: He gets his armor back. But you don't have
the shoes, okay?
TALIESIN: We'll leave it right next to the bit.
MARISHA: Just saying, it feels like we're leaving
an opportunity in the sewer.
TALIESIN: There are good opportunities and bad
opportunities, and this one is giving me the
vibration that perhaps we should just leave him
be.
LAURA: And he's going to remember us and love us.
He's going to be our best friend.
TALIESIN: Well, he's going to be a little
irritated at me in about half an hour. I'm going
to start fraying the rope just a bit, so that
it'll be breakable with a little bit of work. Are
we off?
MATT: Okay, are you fraying it with your sword?
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. Just give it a little--
MATT: The-- (trails off and chuckles)
SAM: Yes!
MATT: The moment the rope breaks--
TALIESIN: I wasn't going to break it, I was just
going to fray it.
MATT: I know. But as you begin to pull, you notice
that, all this time that's been happening, the
ropes in the back have gotten looser and looser.
He uses that point to grab the blade and swing
around and pull it up against you. "I'm sorry, I
need your help."
LAURA: He can do that when he's charmed?
MATT: He's not cutting him, he's just grabbing,
going, "I'm sorry, I need your help," and is
holding you now against the wall, looking at the
rest of you, and says, "Leave me."
LAURA: That's what we’re doing! Jesus!
TALIESIN: We were literally just doing that. And
boy, I've got to tell you that you are really
overestimating their fondness for me right now.
MATT: He pushes you off.
TALIESIN: (laughs) Your stuff's over there.
MATT: He rushes over and pushes the cloth off the
beacon real fast, picks it up and holds it.
LAURA: I go (hums).
MATT: Goes over and starts picking up the armor.
MARISHA: Nope!
TRAVIS: Yeah, we gave him the armor.
LAURA: Yeah, we gave it back to him.
SAM: It's very clear.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Not the boots, not the sword, not
the gold.
SAM: They said it four or five times.
MATT: He puts on the armor. Puts on the mask. Puts
on the leg armor. Takes the beacon.
LAURA: Don't run out the same exit that we do,
okay?
MATT: Turns around and darts deeper into the
sewers.
SAM: (whispers) That's the way we were going to
go.
TALIESIN: I'm going to say, right now, that was
the easiest 20 platinum I've ever made in my
entire life.
LAURA: I mean, we just made so much money.
MARISHA: Should we follow him? See where he's
going?
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: No.
MARISHA: Just saying, maybe there's some cool
portal or something.
TRAVIS: Yeah?
TALIESIN: That's fair.
MARISHA: How are they getting in and out, man?
TALIESIN: I think he probably has some thing.
Whatever they do.
LIAM: He left all his shit-- his armor he's
wearing, but all his other shit was left around?
MATT: Other shit you have, yes.
LIAM: We scooped it up?
LAURA: It's in the bag.
MARISHA: Is he heading deeper into the sewers the
way the spiders were?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Why are you so keen on this one? I mean,
that was a lot. I don't want to get involved in
that. That's crazy.
LAURA: This is wars between empires. Do you really
care?
MARISHA: I don't care about wars between empires,
I just like having more information. For later.
TRAVIS: We should get back to the Song and Supper
Inn.
LAURA: You mean the Leaky Tap.
TRAVIS: Song and Supper. See if Dolan’s there.
LAURA: Oh.
TRAVIS: We are short one, you know.
LAURA: Ulog.
MATT: You hear a shout in the distance.
TALIESIN: Let's roll.
LAURA: Go, go, go, go.
MATT: In the direction that you're traveling,
echoing down that way. And you see a flash of
firelight, torchlight in the distance. You hear a
(hiss) and the sound of weapons clanging--
LIAM: Where he went?
MATT: Yeah, in the direction he went.
LAURA: Oh, he was going in the direction we were
going.
MATT: And then it goes quiet, and you hear voices
say, "We got him! We got him!" And other voices,
and around the corner up ahead you can see a
little bit of torchlight flickering against the
wall.
LIAM: Well, whatever it is, the empire just got it
back.
MARISHA: I should have just strapped him up.
TALIESIN: Do we want to end this really quickly?
TRAVIS: End it?
TALIESIN: We could go over and get involved in
that, since you seemed so keen--
MARISHA and LAURA: No.
TALIESIN: Oh, now you don't want to.
MARISHA: We had control of it when it was still in
our hands. We don't have control anymore.
LIAM: Also, as a sidebar, if we want the other
half of our earlier plan to work, we need to get
to Dolan, we need the crownsguard inside Sutan's
house as quickly as possible.
MARISHA: What did you say, you said we're down
one?
TRAVIS: Yeah, Ulog.
MARISHA: What happened to Ulog?
LAURA: (gasps)
TRAVIS: Oh. Yeah. Well, in the fray of the Richter
coming in, he lunged at her and put a little gem
in her mouth. They exploded.
LAURA: I'm keeping an eye on the path to make sure
nobody's coming down our direction.
MATT: Okay. Hand me the object, please. The item
sheet.
SAM and LAURA: Oh.
LIAM: That could have easily been a blank piece of
paper.
TALIESIN: But it wasn't.
LIAM: It wasn't.
LAURA: You should have looked at it more!
LIAM: I looked at it plenty.
TALIESIN: He also technically memorized it.
LIAM: Sure. All the question marks. I memorized
all the question marks.
MATT: Doesn't work that way.
LIAM: No, that was too mysterious.
MATT: All right. There's some other muffled voices
down the way.
TRAVIS: We've got to get out of here.
MARISHA: Yeah. We don't want to be a part of
this.
LAURA: But wait. Is there another exit? Or is it
back to the--
MATT: It's back to the Tri-Spires.
LAURA: Oh, shit.
MATT: You hear footsteps.
LIAM: All right, come on, we're going back up?
We're either fighting crownsguard or getting out
of here.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we retreat.
Back the way we came.
LAURA: (singing) Back it up, back it up, back it
up, back it up.
SAM: What are you guys doing coming this way?! We
were going the other way!
LIAM: It's a long story, go.
TALIESIN: Bad at this.
TRAVIS: Be quiet, we're being followed.
SAM: Oh God!
TALIESIN: Shh!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Are you drunk, Nott?
SAM: Not yet, but now I will be!
MATT: You guys manage to head back up into the
Tri-Spires, back into the alleyway. As you close
and lock the thing behind, a voice in the back of
the alley-- you guys watch as two crownsguard
approach and go, "Hey! You!" And both pull their
swords to hold out in front, and one guy in the
back, a third one arrives with a crossbow up to
you guys and says, "Hands up, weapons."
LIAM: One, two, three? Don't know who you're
point-- oh, everybody?
MATT: This would be all of you guys as you got out
of the sewer.
SAM: We came back up. Oh, shit.
MATT: "What's your business?"
LAURA: We were scared, things were falling from
the sky.
LIAM: We took cover in the sewers.
MARISHA: We were working at the festival. We're
just trying to get out, man.
LIAM: Has the danger passed?
MATT: (chuckles) I will say, since it wasn't a
single person, I'm going to ask for a deception
roll from both of you, since you were the first
two to speak up.
SAM: This is going to be great.
LIAM: 15.
SAM: Why do you get advantage?
LAURA: Oh, I don't know why I took advantage.
MATT: Yeah, don't get advantage. Roll one more.
TALIESIN: Or you can take the lowest? No?
LAURA: No, I don't want to do that.
TALIESIN: Okay.
LAURA: God damn it. Nine plus-- 12.
MATT: And you rolled a--
LIAM: 15.
MATT: They take a moment. "Get out, we're
investigating." They move in, and they don't take
their arms off of you. They get behind you and
move you out of the alley, into the street, and
begin pushing you guys in the direction of the
outer wall of the Tri-Spires.
MARISHA: I say, sir, we have coworkers that were
working at the festival. Do you know anything
about this attack?
MATT: "We don't have any information at this time,
just get out, we're still checking. Please." You
see the tower, still listing but held in place.
There's this flickering arcane energy underneath
it that occasionally a wave goes (whooshing)
that's holding it aloft. You can see crownsguards
are now-- some are shifting in the streets, going
and weaving through the buildings, and there's a
bunch at the actual exterior wall, and they
eventually push you through, and lead you into the
central part of the city.
LAURA: Are they still with us, or did they push us
away?
MATT: They pushed you away, and you guys are now
in the Interstead Sprawl.
TRAVIS: We should stop by the Song & Supper Inn,
see if we see a friendly face.
LAURA: Let's go, before they realize we were down
there with the guy.
MARISHA: As we walk, I'm going to ask Fjord, did
you catch any weird twitches, or any signs that he
was lying?
TRAVIS: Yeah. I don't know if you saw, but his
eyes and his nostrils flared when we mentioned
Ulog. I have a feeling our small dwarf friend was
involved in quite a bit more than we were aware of.
MARISHA: You know, maybe we were assholes for not
noticing that him handing over his entire life
savings was a little suspicious.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Did he give that to us before?
TRAVIS: Yeah, down in the basement when we were
talking.
LAURA: He gave it to us already, or it was an
after sort of thing?
TRAVIS: We didn't get it yet.
MARISHA: I don't think we got it.
LAURA: He was lying. He's not giving us any of the
money.
TRAVIS: Even more reason to find Dolan.
SAM: He showed it to us.
TRAVIS: It was part of the pot, yeah.
LAURA: I bet it exploded when he did. He
exploded.
LIAM: That is correct, right? We have not been
paid.
MATT: No, you have not been paid.
SAM: Except for the 112 platinum we just got.
MARISHA: Which is pretty dope.
LAURA: What-what!
TRAVIS: How many gold is a platinum?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Ten.
TRAVIS: Damn!
MATT: Who are the two that are keeping point,
leading you guys to the Song and Supper?
TRAVIS: I am.
MATT: Make a perception check, please.
TRAVIS: 13.
LAURA: I am, too.
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: You asked for two people!
MATT: I did.
LAURA: Nobody else spoke up.
14.
MATT: 14, okay. You catch it first, and you
corroborate it. As you guys are heading down the
road, near the sewer exit where you guys were
previously, there's a commotion gathering on the
side of the street.
SAM: Should we go check it out?
TALIESIN: No.
LAURA: Is there a crowd around it?
MATT: There is a crowd gathering now, and you hear
gasps and people starting to shout.
LIAM: I send Frumpkin scurrying between people's
legs into the crowd, put my hand on Beau's
shoulder and go blind.
MATT: You can see now, crownsguard are coming out
of the sewer, and they're dragging the dead body
of the dark elf that you had seen below, and throw
it onto the ground. People are like (gasps), and
they're looking at it, and some folks are talking.
"I've never seen one up close like this." There's
this murmur in the crowd as all about the guards
are like, "Don't worry, don't worry. Both of them
"are dead. You're safe now, thanks to the might and
the trust of the empire. The king keeps you safe."
LIAM: Do Frumpkin and I see the doohickus? The
dodecahedron?
MATT: You do see it being held by one of the
guards in one of his hands, yeah.
MARISHA: All right, let's all be clear that
whatever the empire wants, they'll fucking take.
SAM: Why don't we take that thing from them? Those
guys don't know what that is. Let's go get it!
MATT: Two of the guards pick the body up, and one
of them puts it over his shoulder, and all of them
cluster together as the crowd follows them. Some
of them are taking sticks and poking at the body
as it goes. The guards are like, "Please, stop,
no."
LAURA: Can we run interference and try to trip the
guard and get the thing back?
SAM: Sure, if we want it. Do we want it?
TRAVIS: Oh my god, we're going to try and get it
now?
MARISHA: You can disguise yourself. You can
disguise yourself as Crick!
LAURA: What if we go try to look at the body and
then we accidentally fall on one of the guards and
we make him drop it and then Nott picks it up and
runs away?
MARISHA: I'm definitely super injured, but this
sounds fun.
MATT: They're heading in the direction of the
King's Hall, it looks like.
LAURA: I run up and try to look at the body.
MATT: Okay. So you move and weave into the crowd.
LAURA: Whoa, what is that? Is that a dead body?
Whoa, I've never seen one of those!
MATT: You push up and look, and the body has deep
lacerations all through the torso and back. It
looks like they cut him until they were sure he
was dead.
MARISHA: They're in an alleyway?
MATT: They're heading down the street right now,
they're turning the corner heading down to the
main thoroughfare.
LAURA: Can I trip and fall right in front of the
guard that's carrying the thing?
MATT: You can if you want to.
LAURA: I’m going to trip and fall! Right in front
of him.
TRAVIS: We had it in our hands!
MATT: (laughs) Okay.
LIAM: I’m going to cast Disguise Self as a
crownsguard and just follow. Just see what's
happening.
MARISHA: I'm going to parkour elf, get on the--
Elf? Monk, get on the roof of the nearest building.
MATT: Okay. Make an acrobatics check, just for the
hell of it. Just to see how fast you get up there.
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay. 16.
MATT: 16? And make a stealth check, please.
LAURA: Yeah, but now they want it, I want it back.
Because it hums.
MARISHA: Natural 20.
ALL: Whoa.
MATT: All right. As you dart off onto the rooftop
like Batman, you just vanish amongst the night sky.
And you?
LAURA: I'm tripping and falling in front of the
guard carrying the thing as I'm trying to look at
the body.
MATT: Okay. Make a deception check.
SAM: I'm casting Mage Hand, just in case.
LAURA: God damn it. Why deception? I'm just
falling.
MATT: This is as you falling forward, "Ah!" and
make a scene.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: This is just to see how--
LAURA: Oh, well, I rolled a five.
MATT: Okay. So the guy's-- as you fall in front of
him, he's like, "Please, miss, move away." And two
of the guards rush forward and start picking you
up and shoving you off to the side.
LAURA: Oh, man. I want to trip him.
MARISHA: Where's Nott? Where are you?
SAM: I'm just following behind. Behind Jester, by
30 feet or so.
MATT: More people are coming out now and gathering
the crowd around, to see them pull this dead Crick
through the street. Word's getting around and
people are--
LAURA: As they try to pull me away, I'm going to
try to hook my foot around the ankle of the guard
carrying the thing and, as I'm standing up, try to
trip him to the ground.
MATT: Okay, I will say make a dexterity check, if
you don't mind. Just a straight dexterity check.
TRAVIS: What is the matter with you?
LAURA: 21.
MATT: 21! You barely manage to--Your foot doesn't
quite reach, but your tail does. As it scoops
around his ankle: (yelps). He falls back and
lands--
LIAM: Don't drop it! Don't drop it!
MATT: And you are disguised as--?
LIAM: As a crownsguard. I was walking alongside.
MATT: Okay. Okay!
MARISHA: Come on, come on, come on!
MATT: Okay. And you catch it. The guy starts
getting back up.
LAURA: Oh my gosh, I'm so sorry! That hurt my tail
so much. I'm so sorry! Are you okay?
MATT: He grabs you by the front of your armor and
goes, "You need to get out of our way."
LAURA: I'm sorry. It just looked so inter-- I'm
really impressed with how well you took down that
guy, though!
MARISHA: I follow Caleb as he traces around, but
on the roof.
MATT: Okay. That guy pushes you off--
TALIESIN: I'm standing with Fjord, in shock and
horror.
TRAVIS: Yeah, just full, "Ah."
MATT: He starts looking around the ground.
LIAM: I start doing that thing where I was taking
steps, but not walking with them. And then I
started walking backwards.
(laughter)
MATT: Okay, roll a stealth check, because you're
holding a glowing, undulating device.
LIAM: I thought it was, like, black and glowing.
It’s white and glowing?
MATT: It's like a deep grey.
TALIESIN: I swear we just had this conversation.
What changed?
LIAM: Pretty good for me. Pretty good for me.
That's 14.
MATT: 14?
LIAM: Yeah. Dressed as a crownguard.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: I crouch down on the roof above Caleb,
and I go (bird coo).
SAM: May I--?
MATT: You may.
SAM: Seeing Caleb walk away with the object, I'm
going to cast Silent Image, and make the image of
the object, glowing, about 30 feet away from them
on the ground. (dissonant humming)
MATT: So there's two of them, currently.
SAM: Yeah, I guess.
LIAM: One in my hand, and one on the ground. But
I've got it like this.
MATT: What's your spell DC?
SAM: My spell DC is-- It's plus-- Oh, sorry, hold
on. Silent Image is-- Come on, D&D Beyond.
MATT: What's your intelligence modifier?
SAM: It's plus three is my spellcasting modifier.
MATT: Okay, so it'd be 13, would be your spell
DC.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: Okay. I will say that the two guards that
noticed you leave with the object, even though
they're coming over to be like (confused
stuttering). They see the other object over there,
and they both get confused and look at the two. As
they're standing, trying to figure out what to do,
they both split. One goes for the object over
there; one goes for Caleb. He's catching up to you
and goes like, "Hey! Hey. We're going to the--
We're going to the hall of the king."
LIAM: Oh, I just want to get it away from the
crowd. This thing seems dangerous to me.
MATT: "Right, right. Well, come on." And the two
of you turn around; he guides you to turn around.
You're now walking, trailing behind.
LIAM: Let's just-- a little further back, like
another ten feet. I don't know if this is going to
blow. It's better that it's just you and me.
MATT: All right. Some other townsfolk are starting
to, like, walk up to get a look at this object now
that the crownsguard are holding.
LIAM: So what's around?
MATT: So, you're off, you're behind the group. The
large cluster is moving maybe about 60, 70 feet
ahead of you now. You are back-- when it was
turning onto the main street is where all this
transpired. So you're a little bit off, past the
corner of where they are. They're just starting to
curve out of sight. And you are walking with the
guard now in that direction, slowing down. The
other object that you caused the illusion of is
the other way, and the guard has about 100 feet or
so to walk to get to it. And he's partway there
and he hasn't quite learned what the scenario is.
LIAM: Yeah, good, so I cast Friends on this
crownsguard.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Does that make it drop?
LIAM: No. It's not concentration.
MATT: What's the saving throw on it?
LIAM: It is--
SAM: It just gives you--
MATT: Is there a saving throw?
SAM: Advantage to charisma rolls.
LIAM: Yeah, advantage to charisma rolls. If he’s
not under attack or thinks he’s threatened.
MATT: Oh, all right, cool.
LIAM: Advantage on charisma checks at one creature
of your choice that isn't hostile towards you.
MATT: Yeah. And he is not currently hostile
towards you.
LIAM: So listen. Don't die for this. I will take
this. Just walk ahead. This thing blew a hole in
the side of that tower.
MATT: Make a deception check, with advantage.
MARISHA: Come on, Caleb.
LIAM: Okay. 15.
MATT: 15?
LIAM: The first was a one.
MATT: As soon as you say that-- Oh, shit! Thank
god for Friends.
TRAVIS: (stabbing sound)
MATT: As soon as you say that blew the hole in the
tower, you watch him take an instinctual step
back. "Right. I'll go catch up."
LIAM: We've seen balls of fire take out half a
city block.
MATT: "Right." He darts ahead, looking over his
shoulder as he starts to try and join up with the crowd.
LIAM: I turn into an alley.
LAURA: (pigeon cooing) Cover it up. Walk away.
TALIESIN: You can turn into an alley?
MATT: Make another stealth check, because there's
other folk now that are coming out and are seeing
this. The other guard has just now gotten up to
the illusion.
LIAM: Wait, are there other guards around me? I'm
sorry.
MATT: No. There's the other guard that was paired
with him that went off to go after the illusion
that Nott had created.
MARISHA: Trying to avoid the paparazzi.
TRAVIS: Molly and I are running after Caleb, since
we saw the other guard.
SAM: I'm staying put, and as soon as the guard
gets close, I'll make it slowly rise up into the
sky, just like 12, 13 feet up.
LIAM: Does that give me advantage?
MATT: What spell is this?
SAM: This is Silent Image. I can move it. I just
can't make it make a sound.
MATT: Yeah, so as it drifts up in the air, the
guard goes, "Uh." Looks around. All the about 17
or so townsfolk had began to converge to look up
at it. They're all like, "Ooh." They're all
excited looking at it. It's definitely distracting
the current group. The one guard there is like,
"Go, back! Back!" to everybody. He's starting to
look nervous, because he doesn't know why it's
lifting up, and he's uncertain about what's
happening. You make a stealth check. You're only
getting it because they're distracted by that. To
try and duck into the alley unseen.
LAURA: Am I near him at all? Can I give him a
blessing?
LIAM: Stealth?
MATT: You're not quite close enough.
LIAM: It is a nine.
TRAVIS: Nein! Sorry.
MATT: So you duck into the alleyway, not sure if
you've been seen. All right. What are the rest of
you guys doing?
TRAVIS: Molly and I are trucking after where Caleb
just went through.
TALIESIN: Walking at a very gentle pace in that
direction.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: I'm on the roofs, been tracking Caleb
this whole time. On the roof.
MATT: Right. So you guys go behind. As you begin
to approach, you can see there are two teenage
kids, a boy and a girl, that are dressed nice
enough. Both are like, "Did you see what he was
"holding? I want to see it." They both go into the
alleyway after Caleb as well.
LIAM: Are there any doors or anything in here?
MATT: In this alleyway? There's no immediate door.
It looks like there's a solid wall on one side,
and an arch that leads into a small walkway that
leads between the buildings. If you keep going,
then it splits off into a T intersection of
alleyways, right or left.
LIAM: I'll take the left.
MATT: You take a left? All right.
LIAM: And just keep going.
MARISHA: I drop down in front of the kids
Batman-style.
TALIESIN: Stay in school!
MARISHA: Don't take my fucking line before I get a
chance to say it!
TALIESIN: So sorry. I'm so sorry!
MARISHA: Close, but different motive.
MATT: So you land and they both go, "Ah!"
MARISHA: Whatcha buying, kids?
MATT: "Uh-- uh--"
MARISHA: You know that shit will fucking kill you,
right?
TALIESIN: Oh goddamn it.
MATT: Make an intimidation check. With advantage.
MARISHA: With advantage?
MATT: With advantage because you just dropped down
from the sky.
MARISHA: Jesus, a natural one and a four. So
five.
MATT: Okay. The two kids go (scoffs).
MARISHA: I take out my staff and I say: Do your
parents know you're out this late? Or are you
trying to prove something?
MATT: "It's not worth it. Come on." The girl,
(sniffs) "Fine." They both turn and walk away,
kicking the dirt a little bit.
MARISHA: And just for Taliesin, I say: Stay in
school!
(laughter)
MATT: Perfect.
TALIESIN: I've know you too long now. I feel
sick.
MARISHA: Yeah!
TALIESIN: What a perfect stay in school moment.
MARISHA: I'm going to stealth and try to track
back towards Caleb. But make sure no one else is
also following him.
MATT: Okay. All right, so you guys dart off into
another alleyway. You still do hear guards
shifting, but you start hearing other people are
talking. People are starting to go back to their
homes. They're whispering to each other. Listening
in, you hear phrases being said, like, "The city's
on lockdown. This is crazy. I'm supposed to be
leaving tomorrow!"
LAURA: (whispers) This is a lockdown? Shit.
MATT: You start hearing whispers about the gala,
and like, "How many people were killed?"
"Oh, I heard like 100 people were murdered."
"Serves them right, those fucking rich bastards."
You know, passing conversations.
It's now, the buzz of the town, even this late at
night, as people are now either emerging to see
the scene, or are returning to their homes, seeing
what they have. But the crowd has dissipated, or
at least the crowd has moved on towards the King's
Hall, and are probably in the process of trying to
figure out what the fuck happened to the object
they were carrying. You guys manage to dart off to
the side of the is the eastern end of the
Interstead Sprawl. You aren't apparently followed
at the moment, but you're still holding this
glowing--
LAURA: Can we put it in the bag?
LIAM: Ordinarily, I would say yes, and I might
want to put something else in there. But for the
time being, I don't understand this thing enough.
LAURA: (mumbling) You want to put something else
in the bag?
SAM: (giggles)
LIAM: Let's table that for now. I'm worried what
will happen if this specifically goes into that bag.
LAURA: Why?
LIAM: Because that is an extra-dimensional
pocket.
LAURA: Yes.
LIAM: And I don't know what this is, and I am
worried that it could potentially create--
LAURA: A black hole and suck us all in?
LIAM: Sure, let's go with that. But maybe if we
could procure a lead box to put this inside of,
that will shield it from any possible searching
that could happen for it.
TRAVIS: A lead box?
LIAM: A large, lead box, yeah.
MARISHA: I don't think we should go back to the
Song & Supper.
TALIESIN: I have a hooded lantern we can put it in
in the meantime.
SAM: It’s bigger than that.
MATT: It's about that large. It's got two handles
on each side. It looks like you're carrying a lantern.
LIAM: We need to find Dolan fast. We need to, I'm
serious, find a lead box to put this thing in,
because someone's going to want this very badly.
TRAVIS: Let's split the party. It's always the
best idea. No, but seriously, we don't need
everyone for both.
MARISHA: Fjord and I found an additional cellar,
where we found that skeleton, behind the Leaky
Tap. Doesn't look like anybody--
SAM: I'm still doing illusion shit. Have I
finished that?
MATT: All right, so at this point now, the guard,
who's down below, has called over like four other
guards and they're all at the bottom of it. Some
of them are getting their crossbows ready to shoot
if it does something.
SAM: I'll make it inflate, and then Salvador Dalí,
start dripping. Just like (humming).
MATT: As it swells and then behinds to drip, they
all start backing away. The guards start pushing
people away. The guy that was originally carrying
it, with seven other guards, begins to approach
the cluster. They have broken off from the
procession with the elf body, and they've now
joined up with the other guard. He's like, "There
it is! Stay back; stay back." They're all
nervously waiting for this thing, dripping, and
doing nothing, and they're all scared.
SAM: It's going to start to boil and fizzle into
steam, and dissipate.
MATT: It does, and there's a brief moment as
everyone holds their breath.
TALIESIN: Tinkerbell.
MATT: And you hear a couple of local townsfolk go
(scattered applause and cheers).
(laughter)
MATT: The guards all look at each other, very
confused.
MARISHA: (announcer voice) Thank you for joining
us for Fantasma. The park is now closed.
LIAM: I wish I could be a fly on the wall when
those wizards hear this story from the
crownsguard, just like--
MATT: (dopey guard voice) "I don't know. It just
flew in the air, grew big, and then made sauce and
"disappeared."
MARISHA: (dopey guard voice) "It was just like
that cat I kicked the other day."
LIAM: (disinterested voice) "Yes, very good. Take
a lollipop from the bowl and get out."
(laughter)
SAM: Then I'll try to rejoin them.
MATT: Okay, you manage to catch up. You dart past
two teenage kids that are cursing to each other.
They're both like, "Yeah, that woman was such a
bitch," as they pass by.
SAM: I know who they're talking about.
MATT: Yeah.
(laughter)
MATT: At this point, when you guys are discussing
what to do, you hear the little-- Actually, we'll
say largely you don't hear, but you see Nott
appear at the cusp of your circle. You've caught
up with the rest of them.
SAM: What's going on? Where are we going?
LAURA: We're going back to the Leaky Tap, I
think.
TRAVIS: Yeah, how about Beau and I will go to the
Song & Supper Inn and we'll meet you at the Leaky Tap.
LAURA: Okay, and we'll try to find a box to put it
in.
MARISHA: Nott, remember that additional cellar
behind the Leaky Tap?
SAM: The secret cellar where I found-- nothing.
Where we found a skeleton.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
SAM: Yes.
MARISHA: I think that might be safe.
LIAM: You think the basement with a dead person is
safe?
MARISHA: It was super dead. Like, no one's been
there for a super long time.
TALIESIN: I like this plan.
LIAM: What is a super long time? Like ten years?
What is that?
SAM: Long enough for the body to decompose.
MARISHA: Super clean bones. Like, at least, two
years, I'd say.
LIAM: That's a conversation for another day. Let's
go.
MATT: All right, so the two of you are making your
way to the Leaky Tap.
TRAVIS: Song & Supper.
MATT: Song & Supper, right. The rest of you guys
are going to the Leaky Tap, but finding a box on
the way you said?
TALIESIN: We're going to see if we can find, like,
a--
LIAM: Just a shitty hardware store, man.
MATT: At this point, it's past midnight, and most
of the market is closed.
LAURA: Maybe Claudia has a lead box at her thing.
MATT: You do still have a glowing beacon in your
hand.
LIAM: Okay, well, I'm going to take my cloak off
and cover it.
MATT: It does cover it up. It's a very faint bit
of glow that comes through the fabric, but it's
enough where it probably won't be noticeable from
a distance.
LIAM: I’ve changed my mind, I think it can wait
until morning, but for sure-- Well, if she has
one, good, but it's a lot of disarray.
LAURA: Yeah, but we need one. What if they try to
find it, like, tonight, though?
LIAM: Well, then let's go break into a store and
get a lead box.
SAM: Wait, wait, why does it need to be lead? I
mean, you can turn anything into lead, can't you?
LIAM: Not that particular material.
SAM: Oh. Why does it have to be that particular
material?
LIAM: Because lead shields things from magical--
from divination magic.
TALIESIN: Would they sell a lead box at a magic
shop?
LAURA: Or even at the blacksmith's shop?
MATT: It's possible. None of you are very
well-versed in the ways of blacksmithing or lead
objects, so--
SAM: Pumat would have something.
LIAM: But I would know that when I saw it. I know
alchemy, I know all sorts of materials.
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: We need a safe, is what we need.
MARISHA: I think we can wait until morning,
though. How's the city looking? Are people
ransacking? Are there looters?
MATT: There's no looters, no.
MARISHA: Okay. It's not that bad.
MATT: No, and at this point now, the streets are
fairly barren of crownsguard. They’ve all-- aside
from the cluster that you saw moving through,
there's a whole bunch at the perimeter gates of
the Tri-Spire, and where they would normally be
posted at the different corners of the streets,
they are not.
TALIESIN: Let's hide it with the skeleton for now.
We’ll put some of your thread on it?
LAURA: Oh, that's smart.
TALIESIN: And that way it’ll be down there,
unconnected to us just in case someone finds it,
and if they do, we’ll know the minute they touch
it.
SAM: Smart.
LIAM: For now.
TALIESIN: For now.
LIAM: Good. That's it. That is a great idea.
TALIESIN: Teamwork. Fine, let's do this.
SAM: Look at us! We’re like a team.
MARISHA: Break!
SAM: Break?
MATT: All right, so you two are heading to the
Song and Supper. Okay, and you guys are heading to
the Leaky Tap? All right. So you head back. While
you guys are heading that direction, you head to
the Song and Supper. You manage to make your way
there. It's still open. It's fairly empty on the
inside, there's only two patrons that are present
at this hour. It seems like the commotion has
drawn most of what clientele would have been in
there at the moment, and there’s only two patrons
that are both halfway into their cups, and pretty
drunk or tired at this point. But you look around
and you don't see Dolan, you don't see Horris, you
don't see Kara.
TRAVIS: Nobody here.
MARISHA: You think the whole damn thing was a
fucking distraction?
TRAVIS: Sure feels like it, doesn't it?
MARISHA: I really don't like being used. Who's at
the bar? Is there anyone at the bar?
MATT: Yeah, there is the general barkeep there,
which would be--
Clay Owens.
MARISHA: Clay Owens?
MATT: Yeah, he's a balding, portly gentleman,
middle age or so. As you walk in, he, "Aye, can I
"get you something?"
MARISHA: Hey Clay, how's it going? Long night?
MATT: "All right. Crazy night, from what I'm
hearing."
MARISHA: I know, right? Can I go ahead and get a
double to help with the night?
MATT: "Aye, certainly. Here you go."
MARISHA: Had anyone come in tonight? Any one of
the usuals? Seen Ulog? Seen Kara?
MATT: "No? No. Oh no, Ulog was in earlier this
evening."
MARISHA: Yeah?
MATT: "He was here for a while, and then left with
some friends. Think Dolan and his boy were in for
"a bit. They rushed out in a hurry about an hour
ago?"
MARISHA: All right. You didn't see them rush out
with anybody?
MATT: "Just the two of them."
MARISHA: Mention where they were going?
MATT: "No, they just up and left. Figured they
were done for the evening. They looked a bit hurried."
TRAVIS: Not that we're looking for them, we're-- I
don't feel very well and I don't have money for a
proper physician. I'm sure we could find someone
else.
MATT: "Maybe. You could probably go to their home.
That's usually where they practice out of."
MARISHA: I think he got food poisoning from the
finger food at the gala. You should never trust that shit.
MATT: "Better get there soon, then. It's kind of
late."
MARISHA and TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: All right. Well, thanks, Clay.
TRAVIS: Have a good night.
MATT: "No worries, here's your drink." He gives
you the shot.
MARISHA: Slam it. Let's go.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Want to check his house?
MATT: "I don't-- That’ll be a silver."
MARISHA: Oh, I give him a gold.
MATT: He goes "I-- uh--"
MARISHA: Oh, I'm sorry, I was-- It's just the--
Just keep it. It's just the stress of the night.
MATT: "Thank you kindly!"
MARISHA: Sorry, I'm a little-- maybe next time,
it's a round on you, right?
MATT: "Of course!" He tucks it away. "Thank you!"
MARISHA: Okay, bye. All right, let's go.
TRAVIS: You feeling that double?
MARISHA: No, why?
TRAVIS: Oh good. That's good. I just-- Damn, that
was impressive. Yeah.
MARISHA: Oh, my tolerance is like--
TRAVIS: Beast mode?
MARISHA: It's at an unhealthy level. Let's go.
TRAVIS: You want to go by Dolan's house?
MARISHA: Yeah, let's see if those guys are there.
MATT: Okay, as you guys quietly make your way
towards Dolan's house, as you approach, there's no
light from the inside. Make a perception check,
both of you.
MARISHA: Natural 20!
TRAVIS: And a 16.
MATT: Nice! You both notice there is a quick bit
of movement on the inside even though the lights
are out.
MARISHA: Someone's hiding.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Well, I'll go up and knock. You want
to go around back?
MARISHA: Yeah, sure, make sure they don't try and
run.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I knock and say, it's Fjord with the
Mighty Nein, open up!
MATT: There's a moment pause and the door opens up
very quickly with just enough space to let you in.
Do you go in?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, you head inside. It's dark in there,
but you have your dark vision, so you look around
and it looks like Dolan and Horris are both in
there. Horris has a candle light with a side hood
that's keeping it contained to a small area. Dolan
goes, "Oh, thank god you're okay! We're trying--
"We don't know what to do."
TRAVIS: It's all right. Take a breath. Is there a
back door to this place?
MATT: "Through the bedroom."
TRAVIS: Beau's going to be coming around the back,
make sure she gets let in.
MATT: "Okay." Horris is in the process of taking
things and putting them into a sack. They are
basically rapidly--
TRAVIS: You're leaving?
MATT: "We can't stay here!"
TRAVIS: Why?
MATT: "If they trace anything back to us, they're
going to string us up in front of the tower."
TRAVIS: Take a deep breath, friend. Listen, Ulog
is dead. He sacrificed himself in a very brave
moment. He threw himself at the Richter, threw a
gem in her mouth, and exploded in a Fireball.
Listen, I think--
MATT: "Great, so now we have a murder on our
hands, too."
TRAVIS: I think--
MATT: Horris goes, "Keep your mouth down!
Please!"
TRAVIS: I don't think any of this leads back to
us. We still have to complete our mission.
We got to make sure that Lord Sutan is implicated in
this, but right now we're clean.
MATT: "At this point, that doesn't even matter. We
can't--"
TRAVIS: The Richter's gone! You have a chance to
ascend to her seat! Wasn't that the plan?
MATT: "Yes, but if there is any chance they can
bring that back to us-- maybe we leave town for a
"short time. Maybe just go."
TRAVIS: Stop. Don't be a coward in this moment. If
you want to help this city, if you want to help
make the empire better, you're going to have to
stand strong. A little risk is going to come with
this job, especially in that position. You knew
the risk going into this, didn't you? To put your
money and your lives at risk?
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
TRAVIS: 15.
MATT: 15. He goes, "You're right, we should--" And
Horris goes, "No! What, do you want them to go
"ahead and throw us in the dungeon? Is that what
you want? I understand what you're saying, but
"none of us knew that the High-Richter was going to
be dead! I'm sure they have ways of tracing that
"back. What good--" And Dolan goes, "Calm down.
Please. Maybe he's right, maybe they don't have a
"way to bring it back. If we see this through--"
Horris takes the satchel and sets it on the table,
puts the candle below it and walks up, grabs the
side of Dolan's shoulders, and says, "I
"understand, but I don't want to lose you, and this
scares the shit out of me." They both take a
moment and look at each other. Horris looks at you
and says, "I think you're right. Neither of us
"know how to talk our way out of the guards if they
come by, we're not good liars."
TRAVIS: I understand. Fortunately, in this
situation, you don't have much to lie about. You
were here. You weren't at the Richter’s. You
weren't involved in it in any way. The Knights of
Requital are going to take the fall for this, that
would be the only tie-in. Ulog is dead.
You have a chance to do some real good here.
MATT: Horris nods. "Okay. Then we stay." And Dolan
says, "No, I stay. Just in case things go wrong, I
"want you safe and gone. If this is to be turned
around, I'm the one they're going to look to. I’m
"the one who actually has the political influence
here. I'm the one who can talk and make a
"difference, if that is to be done in the next few
days, or the next week. If you can just, for a
"while, trust me and just leave. Is that okay?" He
looks to you, and Horris kind of--
"Fine, but I'll come back soon."
TRAVIS: We'll keep an eye out. I promise. If
anything needs to be shared between, you can rely
on us to pass a message.
MATT: Dolan nods. "Okay. I'm good. Sorry, Horris,
I don't need you for this. It would be stupid for
"both of us, should anything go wrong, to be taken,
swept up by this. Okay? Trust me."
TRAVIS: Are you in the house yet?
MARISHA: Nope, I'm still out back.
MATT: She's still out back.
MARISHA: (whispers) Fjord? Are you dead?
TRAVIS: That's Beau.
MATT: Horris rushes off and opens the back door.
MARISHA: While all this was going on, can I do a
quick little casing, intelligence to see if
there's any thrown-away trash, burned evidence, or
anything in the back?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: Fucking-- fuck you, Gil. Six.
TRAVIS: You love him or you hate him.
LIAM: The big bad of campaign two.
MATT: There's piles of trash that are pushed in
the corner. You look through and you don't find
anything that catches your interest.
TRAVIS: Dolan, I know Horris and you both are
worried. We're still going to need that payment.
Our efforts have incurred some damages.
MATT: Of course. I don't have Kara's, but I have
ours and I have Ulog's. He left that with us
before he left tonight.
MARISHA: Did he let me in?
MATT: Yes. He let you in at this point. Horris
brought you in. He points over, too, and you can
see there's a smaller sack and a larger one that's
more of a backpack that seems to the be one that
Ulog left. He goes, "Take them, please. That's of
no use to us."
At this point, Horris is letting
Beauregard in, and knowing that it's just the two
of you, he puts his hand on your shoulder and
says, "Keep him safe. Get him out if you can,
please.”
TRAVIS: Anywhere you prefer? Is there a hiding
spot?
MATT: "I don't know. Just out of the city. Just
out of the city for a week. That's all I ask."
TRAVIS: Fair enough. We can do that.
MATT: A cart rolls by and they all get very
quiet.
MARISHA: There's a little town not far from here
called Alfield. It might actually have use for a
doctor right about now.
TRAVIS: Beau has experience with this area.
MATT: "Maybe. Okay."
MARISHA: Wait. Before you guys leave. It doesn't
matter based on what's just happened. Is there
anything that you guys know that we didn't about
any other of the members of the Knights of
Requital that might have a more invested interest
in an invasion or getting back at anyone in the
Zauber Spire? Sorry. Yes. That was the right one.
MATT: "Invasion? I'm confused."
TRAVIS: I'm afraid Ulog may have had a larger game
to play.
MATT: Horris slaps the shoulder of Dolan and says,
"I told you there was something up with that guy."
TRAVIS: Why do you say that, Horris?
MATT: "I just didn't trust him. I mean, it took a
while for us to be okay with each other, but he
"was always on edge."
TRAVIS: He left us in charge of finding justice
for his wife, and we intend to.
MATT: "That's something."
MARISHA: Seems like you all had your own
individual motives for why you were part of the
Knights of Requital. You sure yours was just
because you wanted to be the High-Richter?
MATT: "Anywhere I could help change the law of the
town."
TRAVIS: Do I believe him?
MATT: Make an insight check.
TRAVIS: 11.
MATT: 11. Hard to read, but he seems forthright.
TRAVIS: All right. Let's help Horris get out of
the city. Stay low. Stay here.
MATT: "I will. Thankfully, when all this went
down, we were both in the Song and Supper, so at
"least we have an alibi. I've just never done
something like this before. Pardon my nerves." You
see his hands are literally shaking, and you see
notice now he is very nervous.
TRAVIS: Have a drink. It’ll help with that.
MATT: "I will." He goes off to the corner and
pulls out a small glass bottle of liquor. He comes
over, and him and Horris give a very tight hug to
each other, and then separate. Dolan sits down,
puts the drink on the table. “Thank you."
TRAVIS: Of course. We'll have to regroup, and
we'll get back to you as soon as we can.
MATT: "Go."
TRAVIS: We leave.
MATT: Horris comes with you guys towards the Leaky
Tap. You guys make your way to the Leaky Tap.
LAURA: Yes, we do.
TALIESIN: Before we go in, we're going to go to
the basement.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I'm going to go upstairs to try to talk to
Claudia.
LIAM: I will say that on the walk, I would
instantly Identify the stone.
MATT: Okay, so you will cast--?
LIAM: Identify.
SAM: The stone?
LIAM: From Sutan's house.
MATT: Oh, from Sutan's house, I got you. Yeah.
Here you go. A sending stone. One of two. You do
not know where the other one is.
SAM: Oh, intrigue.
LAURA: Like we had? Like Vox Machina had?
SAM: Who? What? Who are you talking about?
LAURA: Oh, where you speak into it. Not like where
you hold onto it and you transport?
MATT: No, not that. That was a gate stone. This is
essentially a means of communicating between two
stones.
LIAM: Once-a-day walkie-talkie.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: You head down into the basement area beneath
the Leaky Tap. Once again, the guard is pretty
sparse. You’ll see one guard walk past, but their
numbers seem to have been ushered elsewhere in the
city. So you make it down there and you take
enough time that you eventually get the lock back
open that you left. You head down into basement.
It's exactly how you left it.
SAM: This is the place. Are you with us?
LIAM: Yes, I am.
SAM: This is the place I was talking to you about.
The skeleton’s right over there.
TALIESIN: I say we put it behind the skeleton.
LIAM: I go take a look at this skeleton. I would
like to try to ascertain how long this fucker has
been here.
MATT: Make a medicine check.
LIAM: Yeah. Not great at all, like all my skill
rolls. Seven.
MATT: A seven? Hard to tell. I mean, just looking
at the level of decomposition, it's been here a while.
TALIESIN: Do I get anything from it? Is it a
normal human skeleton?
TRAVIS: "Do I get anything from it?" You creepy
bastard.
MATT: Make a medicine check to see if you can
ascertain the creature type.
TALIESIN: Ten.
MATT: It definitely doesn't appear to be anything
beyond humanoid. The size, the shape of the
skeleton, it's a standard humanoid skeleton, but
you’re not able to tell anything beyond that.
LIAM: Here's the thing. We can hide this here.
It's a calculated risk, which I am fan of,
generally. But my thread, my magic would let me
know if someone-- no, never mind.
SAM: What?
LIAM: No. I can put a magical lock on the door to
this basement as well. As well as an alarm.
TALIESIN: An alarm and a lock?
SAM: What would that do?
LIAM: Well, the thread will allow me me to know if
someone I didn't want to be in here came in here.
(distant clattering)
MATT: That's upstairs.
LAURA: That's me upstairs,
talking to Claudia.
And the spell will stop your average Joseph from
coming in here.
TALIESIN: I like this plan. It's a good plan.
SAM: All right. Very smart, as always.
LIAM: But, you know, I think you and I should
sleep down here tonight, actually.
SAM: With the skelly?
LIAM: Yes.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I think we're going to need you upstairs
for some identification. I think it would be less
suspicious sleeping down here.
LIAM: I worry-- well, I'll tell you my concerns
and that is that this thing is beyond
comprehension, even. And the desire to get it back
is going to be great. This-- and I pull out the
Sending Stone-- is just a stone that I stole from
Sutan's house. This I'm not worried about. Would
you put this in your backpack, please?
LAURA: I'm not with you. I'm upstairs trying to
get a hold of Claudia.
LIAM: Oh, you’re not with us? I'll have to ask
Jester to put this in her backpack.
TALIESIN: So noted.
LIAM: But this thing was worth blowing up a tower
for.
TALIESIN: And if someone spies on it, I don't want
them to see you with it.
SAM: If we slept in our rooms--
LIAM: You cannot spy on a thing, as far as I know.
You can spy on a place. You can spy on a person.
TALIESIN: You can spy on anything, I imagine. I
mean, it's magic, right?
LIAM: This is why I want the lead box.
TALIESIN: Is that really going to work?
SAM: But what if someone breaks in and we're here?
Then we're attached to these objects. I mean, I'll
sleep down here if you want. Maybe we can get rid
of the skelly first.
TALIESIN: It’ll take 20 seconds to get here from
the second that alarm goes off.
LIAM: All right.
TALIESIN: One night.
LIAM: Okay. Well, let’s hide it.
TALIESIN: Well.
LIAM: Ja. From normal people. I put the same
shitty rag on it that was on it before.
MATT: Okay. Make a general survival check to pull
things from the surrounding--
LIAM: Two plus three. That’s five.
TALIESIN: Can I help with this?
MATT: Sure. You look at it, the job he did, and
you’re like, "Yeah, I can probably do a little better."
TALIESIN: Yeah, I can! Is this survival? Seven.
MARISHA: Always have someone check your work.
LIAM: Molly and Caleb put the skull on top of it
together.
MATT: It’s fine. Essentially, you didn’t do a
masterful job in completely camouflaging it, but
it looks like it’s the rest of the objects that
looks dusty and left there.
LIAM: Did you say there were crates down here
too?
MATT: There were some barrels. There was an open
crate with nothing in it. It’s a dusty, unused cellar.
TALIESIN: Let’s put it behind the skeleton. If I
came down here, I’d look in the crates. It’s the
first thing I’d do.
LIAM: Okay.
LAURA: You would-- Oh. Never mind, I’m not there.
MATT: So you hide it up and put it off to the
side.
TALIESIN: I look in the crate.
MATT: You look in the crate? You look inside and
see a fairly rat-eaten sack of rice grains that
have spilled out.
TALIESIN: Awesome.
MATT: As well as a lot of rat droppings in the
crate. It looks like some of the wood at the
bottom has been chewed through as well.
LAURA: I’m not there.
TALIESIN: Nope. Never mind. Damn. That was good
thought, though.
LAURA: That was a really good thought.
MATT: Anything else, guys?
TALIESIN: Thread. Lock.
SAM: What’s wrong, Caleb?
LIAM: I really think we should stay down here with
it.
SAM: All right. I’m game.
TALIESIN: One of you, if not both of you.
LIAM: Why don’t you and I stay down here for the
night? You have anything you want me to identify,
leave it, I can do that. You know what I have, I’m
not leaving.
SAM: What? I mean, we don’t know what Fjord and
the grumpy one have discovered. Maybe we should go
upstairs and reconnoiter with them and then come
down here, when it’s time for beddy-bye.
LIAM: I will stay with this thing. You go up. When
they come back, you come back down. My gut tells
me to stay close to this thing.
SAM: All right. I’ll stay with you, then.
LIAM: I’m glad.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: So we’re going to go in and out of this
room several times tonight?
LIAM: The entrance to this is in the back of the
building, right?
MATT: It is, yes. It’s in the alley.
TALIESIN: That in no way is suspicious, but that’s
fine.
LIAM: Well, Nott, you go up. You can just Message
me.
SAM: Oh yes, I can do that. Should I do that and
then come back later?
LIAM: Yeah, and you come down here.
SAM: You’re just going to stay here in this dank,
dark room with a skeleton by yourself, no dinner.
All right.
MARISHA: Sounds like half the clubs in LA.
SAM: All right. I’ll be back in less than an hour.
TRAVIS: We got a quesadilla.
MARISHA: Fuck!
All right. I’ll go up and see what they are saying.
MATT: While this is happening--
LIAM: When they leave, I’m going to take the big
item and put it on my person. I’m going to hold
it, actually.
MATT: Okay. As you’re holding it there, it’s
strangely warm to the touch. The more time you
spend with it holding it there.
LIAM: I am not, like, looking into the abyss. I
just don’t understand it and I’m just holding it there.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: Okay. Let me see here. Okay.
LIAM: Jester had all the shit, right?
LAURA: I had all the shit!
MATT: Yep. So you head back up into the Leaky Tap
Tavern. There’s a handful of patrons, a lot of
them are talking or whispering about the events
tonight. Talking about, "The tower’s still up
"there! It’s crazy!" The general
conversation-hubbub through the room.
LAURA: I go to the barkeep. Is Claudia awake?
MATT: "Probably in her office."
LAURA: Okay! I go and knock on the door.
MATT: Okay. "Who is it?"
LAURA: It’s me, Jester!
MATT: "Um, w-what do you want?"
LAURA: Claudia! When we were over at the Gala, we
saw things that were going on, it was crazy, a
tower exploded and then all hell broke loose. Did
you know someone tried to steal my stuff?
MATT: "I did not know that. My apologies."
LAURA: Do you have maybe a safe or something?
Because I don’t feel safe carrying around my
jewelry anymore with me.
MATT: "No, not on me. Well--
"Come back in the morning,
I might have something for you."
LAURA: Claudia, are you naked? Why won't you open
this door?
SAM: Flush.
MATT: "No, I am busy at the moment."
LAURA: Is everything okay?
MATT: "Everything is just fine."
LAURA: Claudia. Blink once-- knock-- say you're
not okay if you're not okay because you sound weird.
MATT: "I'm fine. Do not worry."
LAURA: Okay. But you do have a safe I can put my
jewelry in now?
MATT: "It is currently in use, but I can swap it
out. How long do you need it for?"
LAURA: Well, I was going to put it in my room for
as long as we're here, if that's okay with you.
MATT: "Okay, then come back in the morning. I will
have it cleared out."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "Then it will be at use for you."
LAURA: Are you having sex?
MATT: "No."
LAURA: Do you want me to come in? Are you okay?
MATT: "I'm okay."
LAURA: You sound really weird. I try the
doorknob.
MATT: Okay. It's locked.
LIAM: Cue the horror strings. (violin
screeching)
TALIESIN: I have had this roommate.
MARISHA: I was just about to say, Jester’s
everyone's little sister when you're a senior in
high school.
LIAM: Jester's face pushes through the door!
LAURA: I get down on my hands and knees and try to
look. Can I look under the door?
MATT: Make a perception check with disadvantage
because you are looking through a tiny little gap
in the floor.
TALIESIN: Whoa.
LAURA: Okay, well the first one was really good.
Perception. Nine.
MATT: Nine? You see there's light in there and you
can see Claudia darting back and forth behind her
desk, moving very rapidly and with haste. Is
grabbing things and seems to be writing something
feverishly. But you don't actually see her, you
just see the bottom of her feet moving back and forth.
MARISHA: Why are so many fucking people trying to
skip town?
TRAVIS: Shady motherfuckers.
LAURA: Claudia, what are you doing?
MATT: She stops in the space. "Um, I'm--"
LAURA: Is everything okay?
MATT: "Everything's fine."
LAURA: Did you see the tower explode?
MATT: "I heard about it."
LAURA: Can you let me in?
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
TRAVIS: That cuteness, man.
TALIESIN: There should be an annoyance check. This
is so great.
LIAM: Give her advantage. Oh my god.
LAURA: 15.
MATT: 15. The door opens up and you can see
Claudia looking as pristine as ever. Hair, makeup,
everything done perfectly. "Come in, quickly."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Closes the door, brings you inside.
LIAM: Can I come in now?
MARISHA: Don't take no for an answer.
LIAM: How about now?
MATT: "I am aware that you and your team were
involved in something this evening. Am I correct?"
LAURA: Well, we were at the Gala because we were
having some fun.
MATT: "But you are not in any way, shape or form
perhaps doing a burglary and job breaking in for
"the Knights of Requital, yes?"
LAURA: Who are that?
SAM: Two floors below we're putting a skull--
(laughter)
MATT: Make a deception check.
TRAVIS: Who are that?
LAURA: That's actually a really good deception.
21.
MATT: She looks at you confused and goes, "Well,
regardless, your friends are involved in something
"that as a precaution, as I have been housing
certain meetings out of friendship with an
"individual, there is danger that I might be pulled
up in this. So I am preparing to sell off the tavern."
LAURA: (gasps) Wait a minute, but wouldn't that
draw attention to the tavern?
MATT: "It will only draw attention to me."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: She walks over and finishes tidying
paperwork on the side.
LAURA: Who are you selling it to?
MATT: Make a general charisma roll. Just for the
hell of it.
LAURA: Well see, this is why I-- oh no. Ten?
MATT: Ten? She goes, "To a friend."
LAURA: Oh. Friends are good. Can I have that safe
though?
MATT: (sighs) She kneels down at the side of the
room and there's a cloth put over a small table,
like an end table, and she removes the flowers
from it, pulls the cloth off and it's a safe.
LAURA: What's it made out of?
MATT: "Out of iron. What else would you make a
safe out of?"
LAURA: Oh. Okay.
MATT: She pulls out a key and unlocks it, brings
out a couple of bags of coin, brings out a couple
other bags of something. You don't hear any noise,
the rustling as she pulls it out. Sets them off to
the side, looks at you while she does so the whole
time like--
LAURA: Are those drugs?
MATT: "Here’s your safe."
LAURA: Thank you.
MATT: Hands it to you. It's small. It's heavy, but
you're pretty strong. "All right."
LAURA: Well, all right. Will you be gone in the
morning, then?
MATT: "Probably."
LAURA: Oh no! But Claudia, I really like you.
MATT: "Well, I like you too. But that's okay.
Don't worry. The woman I'm selling this to is also
"a very good person and a good friend."
LAURA: What's her name?
MATT: There's a brief pause, glances over at the
paperwork on the table--
LAURA: I look down at the paperwork on the table,
too.
MATT: "Lauren. Lauren Schvine."
LAURA: Is that what it says?
MATT: It is.
LAURA: (giggles) Okay. Lauren. That's a good name.
I heard when we were coming back that they were
putting the city on lockdown, so if you're going
to leave, you should probably do it quickly.
MATT: "I appreciate the information. I should be
okay."
LAURA: All right.
MATT: "Good night."
LAURA: Good night. Thank you, Claudia, for all of
this.
MATT: "Not a problem."
LAURA: I walk very slowly out of the room and keep
looking over my shoulder as I'm doing it and
smiling back at her.
MATT: She watches and waits, sees you smiling,
arms crossed on the desk, patiently waiting.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to put this in my room,
thank you.
MATT: The door closes behind you and you hear a
(heavy sigh) audibly on the other side of the
door. So as the rest of you begin to catch up and
gather for the evening, we're going to take a break!
(cheering)
MATT: Be back here in a few minutes to pick up
from that point. We do have tonight's Wyrmwood
giveaway. That went all sorts of weird,
interesting ways. Oh man.
MARISHA: We almost killed a guy and then someone
else killed a guy, we still reaped all the
rewards. Good for us, guys. Good for us.
MATT: Not all of them.
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: There’s a lot of interesting ways that could
have gone. All right, so we have the black walnut
deck box from our friends at Wyrmwood here. Also,
apparently comes with a Magic the Gathering pack.
These have been in all the boxes so you get a
little gift in there. This will go out to one
winner. You have to enter Twitch chat, starting
now. You can only put the word in once, or you'll
be disqualified, but the word tonight is
"Threats." T-H-R-E-A-T-S. Come into the Twitch
chat, enter that. Once again, only, unfortunately,
available to people in the United States and
Canada, excluding Quebec. We're trying to figure
out how to fix that in the future, but weird laws
in giveaways. Anyway, we'll be back here in a few
minutes. Much love and we'll see you soon.
[break]
MATT: And welcome back. Way late on that one.
LIAM: It was like a Pokémon, though.
MATT: There you go. We have a winner. The winner
for this evening is Iraginger. Iraginger, congratulations.
MARISHA: Ey, represent!
MATT: We'll get that box to you ASAP. Well done.
All right, so, bringing us back into the game, you
all begin to converge back in the Leaky Tap. The
party has reassembled, aside from you, who are
staying down in the basement.
LIAM: Hanging out with my new friend.
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Yorick.
MATT: As you guys all gather together, what do you
do?
LAURA: Are we in a room? We should be in a room
instead of in the--
TRAVIS: Not downstairs?
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Upstairs, yeah. Convene in-room.
TALIESIN: There's money and loot. Let's take a
look.
TRAVIS: Convene in the girls' room. It's bound to
be cleaner.
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: It's all right.
LAURA: We did have a pillow fight.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's down feathers all over the
place.
MATT: Yeah, it's pretty (blows out lips).
SAM: So we've got some stuff. What did we get?
LAURA: (heavy thud) Nott, what is this made out
of?
SAM: This? I will taste it. I will lick the safe.
MATT: It's very... iron-y? It's like licking a nine
volt battery.
LAURA: Is it made of lead?
SAM: It's ironic. It's not what we want.
LAURA: I really was trying to get a lead box.
SAM: You did very well considering it's after
midnight and you got a metal box for free.
LAURA: It's true.
SAM: I don't know, can I tell it's lead-- I mean,
iron, not lead?
MATT: Make an intelligence check. Because you are
an alchemist, I'll give you advantage on it.
SAM: Okay. Just a straight intelligence check?
MATT: Yep.
SAM: 15.
MATT: 15? Okay, yeah. This is very definitively
iron. You've tasted iron, iron filings and things
of that similar nature and it has the same twinge
to the flavor.
SAM: Oh. It's a very well-made safe.
LAURA: Well, we can still put stuff in it if we
want to.
MARISHA: Where's Caleb? He downstairs?
TRAVIS: Yeah, where is Caleb?
SAM: He's downstairs for now, but I am in constant
communication with him.
MARISHA: What's the last thing he said?
SAM: I take out my piece of wire and I do my
incantation and I whisper to it and I say: Did the
skeleton come to life and kill you? Please respond
to this message.
LIAM: Everybody is dead down here.
SAM: He's a prankster.
(laughter)
SAM: He's good ol' Cay.
TRAVIS: He's down there babysitting our item?
SAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Okay.
TALIESIN: We're going to want to take a look at
these boots. These daggers.
LAURA: Hey, Claudia was aware that we guys were in
league with the Knights of Requital.
MARISHA: Makes sense.
LAURA: Claudia says she's selling the tavern.
MARISHA, TALIESIN, and TRAVIS: What?!
LAURA: Yeah. Like tonight.
MARISHA: How much?
LAURA: To a girl named Lauren Spizzick or
something.
MARISHA: Shpizich?
TRAVIS: Spinach.
SAM: Lauren Spinach.
LAURA: So she said she was selling it, and I said,
"Wouldn't that draw attention to the tavern,
"though?" and she said no, just her. But if it
does, and she knows, then maybe it could lead the
guards to us, though.
SAM: Should we change to a different hotel?
LAURA: It might be smart, but that might be--
SAM: Wait, she was selling this place because of
us?
MATT: As a note, so you guys recall, Horris is
with you.
MARISHA: Wait, what?
LAURA: Wait, Horris came with us?
MATT: Horris came along with you guys.
TRAVIS: That's my bad. Yeah, he did.
MARISHA: I thought we just sent him on his way.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we forgot to qualify that.
MARISHA: Aw, fuck! I thought--
LIAM: Make believe is tricky, guys.
LAURA: Horris is in this room right now?
MATT: Horris is in the room with you.
LAURA: Aw, come on, man.
SAM: I should put on my pants.
TALIESIN: Let's not be hasty.
MATT: We'll say, for the purposes of this, the
door now opens to the room and Horris comes in
after a drink to steady his nerves and goes,
"Hello."
MARISHA: Did you bring me that drink? Oh, sit
down.
TRAVIS: Yeah, jeez, man. No sense of humor right
now, he's in shock, all right?
MARISHA: Sorry.
TRAVIS: Horris, we're going to get you out of the
city as soon as possible. Is there a destination
you wanted to send him to, or point him in the
right direction?
MARISHA: I was mentioning Alfield, but really,
it's up to him, I guess. I don't care.
TRAVIS: Have any spots in mind that you can lay
low for a while?
SAM: Why does he need to leave the city?
MARISHA: We walked in on him and his boy trying to
skip town.
TRAVIS: They were understandably rattled. It's
understandable, but Dolan's going to try and stay
to make the city a better place. Horris is going
to remove a bit of the risk for himself for a bit.
MATT: "Just for a little bit."
LAURA: You should go to the coast. You should get
out of the empire.
TRAVIS: It is lovely by the coast.
MARISHA: Well, he said he only wanted to be gone a
week, though, right?
MATT: "About a week or two, until things--"
SAM: Why do you need to leave? Who's suspicious of
you?
MATT: "We don't know yet. It's just a
precautionary measure."
MARISHA: You do know that leaving town itself is
suspicious in its own right, right? Just throwing
it out there.
MATT: "We have an alibi, but if we both stay and
we get found out, we both get arrested."
MARISHA: But you have an alibi. It's hard to have
an alibi when you mysteriously--
MATT: "What do you want me to do, then?"
MARISHA: I don't give a shit what you--
MATT: "She who questions everything and offers no
answers. What do you want me to do?"
TRAVIS: I think what Beau is trying to say is that
you've made a wise choice in removing yourself for
a bit. Did you happen to know the owner of The
Leaky Tap? She's apparently selling it.
MARISHA: Yeah. Claudia. Also skipping town.
MATT: "I don't blame her, either."
LAURA: I don't know if she's leaving town. She's
just selling the tavern.
TRAVIS: She's selling it? Yeah.
MARISHA: She knew we were holding all those
backroom meetings, right? She helps you guys quite
a lot.
MATT: "As far as Dolan told me, yeah."
TRAVIS: Did you want to get out of town tonight,
or did you want to wait until the morning, perhaps?
MATT: "I can wait until the morning, if you don't
mind me crashing with you."
TRAVIS: Not at all. We have room in Molly and I's
room.
SAM: You can take Caleb and my room.
LAURA: Why? Are you not going to--
SAM: We'll be spending the night somewhere else.
LAURA: (gasps) Where?
TALIESIN: Well, we're not going to speak of that
in mixed company, but they're dealing with other problems.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll lead Horris to our room and let
him get comfortable. I'll be back.
LIAM: Just a quick aside, while all of this is
going on. I place the thing in my lap and I pick
up the skull. Oh, so many secrets, huh, Yorick?
(gravelly) "Maybe you should tear it off your chest."
I don't think that's a good idea.
"It's driving you crazy."
Maybe not yet.
"It's probably a good idea."
You're funny.
TRAVIS: (gravelly) Red rum.
MATT: Seriously.
SAM: I get to spend the night with that guy.
TRAVIS: Yeah, you're going down there.
MATT: All right. Anything else you want to work
out, discuss, or plan?
TALIESIN: Let's divvy up the loot. I've worked it
out, that's 19 platinum apiece, and two gold
pieces apiece.
TRAVIS: Wow, fucking pay day!
TALIESIN: With two platinum left over.
MARISHA: How many platinum? 19?
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: That's a lot of platinum.
MARISHA: And two gold?
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
SAM: I'll take Caleb's share and give it to him.
LAURA: Okay, so we also got-- let's look. This
sword.
TRAVIS: What kind of sword is it?
MATT: It's roughly longsword length. It has this
curved, hooked edge to it. The blade looks like it
would not just slash, but tear as it went through
flesh as well. It's pretty wicked-looking.
LAURA: It's pretty wicked-looking.
TRAVIS: Does it look like it has any magical aura
emanating from it?
MATT: I don't know, can you sense magic?
TRAVIS: Not officially.
MATT: Then you do not know.
SAM: I can take it downstairs later and have
Cay-Cay take a look at it.
TRAVIS: Cay-Cay, not to be confused with Kiki.
MARISHA: Yeah!
LAURA: We also have these really super cool spiky
boots.
TRAVIS: What do those do?
LAURA: I think you put them on your feet and they
protect them.
TRAVIS: Molly, put those boots on.
TALIESIN: Yeah, all right. How do they look?
MATT: They look nice.
TALIESIN: I think they clash a bit, but--
LAURA: I don't think they go with your pants.
TALIESIN: No, not really.
TRAVIS: You get an extra spring in your step?
What's it do?
MATT: You take a moment and you feel... alert.
TALIESIN: They're caffeinated. Sorry.
MARISHA: I didn't expect you to wear platforms.
LAURA: It's weird to see the bottom of your pants
because you normally have those thigh-highs on.
TALIESIN: Oh, they're very comfortable and they
keep everything else clean.
LAURA: Yes. Okay, we also have these three
daggers, which look like-- Are they ceremonial? Do
they look--
MATT: They look functional. They're similar in
design to the longsword. They're not quite as
intricate, and they're much simpler. They don't
have the same grooves carved into the hilt, and
they look like fairly decent daggers for either
stabbing or throwing.
LAURA: I lick one, then I lick the safe. Is it
iron, then?
MATT: You're not certain what material they're
made from. It's not the same as the-- What are you doing?
TALIESIN: I'm playing with the longsword.
MATT: It's got a great balance.
LAURA: Oh, and we don't have the armor anymore, we
gave it back to him.
MATT: Yeah, the armor you gave back, and then was
scooped up by the Crownsguard.
MARISHA: I look at Molly and I take out my bo
staff. I say: Parry! and I go whack with the
sword. See if anything happens.
MATT: Okay. Do you attack him?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Roll for an attack.
MARISHA: I mean, I told him I was attacking.
TALIESIN: I'm going to parry.
MARISHA: 20 total.
TALIESIN: Boy, that hits!
MATT: You attempt to parry cooly, and she hits you
in the right eye.
TALIESIN: Ow!
MARISHA: Oh sorry, I thought we were just
wrestling a little.
TALIESIN: I hit her with the flat of the blade.
MARISHA: Ow! Fuck!
TALIESIN: Any effect?
MARISHA: Do I feel anything?
MATT: Pain.
SAM: Why don't I just have Caleb look--
TALIESIN: Any effect?
MARISHA: Yeah, a fucking headache!
TALIESIN: My god, it works! It's amazing!
SAM: I'll take the daggers, unless you can use
them to throw, I can throw them at things, I think?
MARISHA: Do the daggers seem special?
MATT: The daggers seem to be simpler in design.
You're not sure if they're special or not. I mean,
the only person who can detect magic is not in the
room.
LIAM: We're going to drag this out as long as
possible.
MATT: I know!
MARISHA: I'm going to take one of the daggers and
I throw it against the windowsill.
TRAVIS: Window-seal?
SAM: That's how they say it in Kentucky.
MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack.
TRAVIS: Window-seal.
MARISHA: Seal. Damn it, that's true. What did you
say?
MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack.
MARISHA: (singing) Don't fuck me, Gil. 20. Sorry,
22.
MATT: 22? Yeah. (vibrating impact) It sticks to
the bottom of the sill; it doesn't quite hit the
glass, it manages to hit its mark and stay there,
like a dagger.
MARISHA: I mean, that was pretty awesome, right?
SAM: I think that was more you than the dagger,
though.
MARISHA: That's true.
TRAVIS: Why are y'all staying in another place
tonight?
SAM: For safety.
TRAVIS: Oh. Because of the thing?
SAM: (loudly) Yes, because of--
MATT: Horris isn't in the room anymore.
SAM: Oh. All right.
LAURA: You take your pants back off.
SAM: Yeah, because of the thing. Caleb's idea.
TRAVIS: You need any help? Backup?
SAM: I'm the help.
TRAVIS: Right.
MARISHA: I think what Fjord meant was: can y'all
be trusted?
LAURA: Exactly. Will you send a message to Caleb
and say, "Are we going to leave everyone else
"tonight and steal the big ball?" Send a message to
him saying that.
MARISHA: Very valid question.
SAM: All right, sure. I take out my wire, I do my
incantation. I send a Message to him, I say:
Caleb, are we going to abscond with the
dodecahedron in the dead of night? You can reply
to this message, and only I can hear your reply.
LIAM: Tell them I'm not going to run off with it.
SAM: Yes, we are.
LAURA: Damn it!
TRAVIS: Nott, why? Why are you going to--
SAM: We're not going to steal it! He's scared of
that thing, why would we take it away from you?
MARISHA: Seems like he's taken a few things that
he's afraid of.
TRAVIS: Yeah, to be honest, that evening started
to take a turn before the Richter showed up. Do
you know Caleb to be sticky-fingered like
yourself?
SAM: We do what we need to do to survive.
MARISHA: Wait, what happened?
TRAVIS: Well, remember we were trying to leave no
trace? Caleb was the architect of the plan, and
there was a scroll that looked like it might have
some magic to it, and he wanted to take it with.
SAM: So what? The plan was to leave no trace,
not take nothing. He was very clear at the outset
that we were doing this for money.
MARISHA: You do realize that missing things mean
leaving a trace, right?
SAM: No.
TRAVIS: We were right there at the end, we were at
the finish line.
SAM: We caused a giant explosion, we destroyed a
rug, we broke into two different places, Mollymauk
was seen by guards outside of both; there was
plenty of traces we left behind. I opened a box
that froze me for an hour!
LAURA: I know, and I saved you!
SAM: Yeah, I'm pretty sure someone's going to
notice that that box has been opened!
MARISHA: You realize you're not helping your case,
right?
SAM: I'm just saying, him taking a scroll is small
potatoes.
MARISHA: We’d already fucked up the rug, we
probably shouldn't fuck up anyone else's house. We
were already implicated at one place, right?
TRAVIS: Nott, it's just a little reckless,
wouldn't you say?
SAM: What Caleb does is well thought-out and
always intentional and smart.
TALIESIN: You're a remarkable judge of character,
you know that?
MARISHA: Are you aware of what Stockholm Syndrome
is?
SAM: Stockholm Syndrome?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: No, I'm not. Explain that to me.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's an Emon thing.
MATT: Gerald Stockholm.
SAM: What are you implying?
TALIESIN: I think what Beau is trying to imply
is-- I'm going to use something a little more
basic. Do you know the story of the scorpion and
the turtle?
SAM: Sure. The scorpion rides on the turtle's
back...
TALIESIN: And then what happens?
SAM: Whatever Caleb says happens next.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: The scorpion rides on the turtle's back
across a river. The scorpion stings the turtle,
they both drown. What is the moral of this story?
LAURA: Don't be a scorpion.
SAM: Stay away from the water, is what I take from
it!
TALIESIN: That's true, but the full point of this,
and the point I'm trying to make, is that with a
group like this with very untrustworthy people,
you've got to trust each other-- because you have
to trust somebody. You can't trust not anybody,
because you're just alone.
SAM: All right, so you are all apologizing for not
trusting Caleb's judgment.
TALIESIN: We don't trust you.
LAURA: I trust you!
TALIESIN: You've tried to steal from us twice.
SAM: Not you.
TALIESIN: You've tried to steal from us. Not
me, us. This is where the circle has to start.
We will support you in doing some ridiculous
stuff, but you have to keep it outside.
TRAVIS: We're looking out for you, I mean.
TALIESIN: And that means sometimes you can't do
the thing you want because it's going to be better
for everybody else, and sometimes everybody else
is wrong, but you have to go with it.
SAM: All right, and what exactly have you done to
earn our trust?
TALIESIN: Nothing, there's been no earned trust--
LAURA: I saved you!
TALIESIN: I actually did take a crossbow bolt,
knocked myself unconscious, trying to save your life!
SAM: I'm not talking about life or death.
TALIESIN: I saved your life!
MARISHA: It doesn't matter, wait.
TALIESIN: And it doesn't matter, we start from
scratch! This is where it starts!
SAM: I've saved your lives, Caleb has saved your
lives--
TALIESIN: When?
SAM: Tonight. Caleb got that dodeca-fuckballs out
of there by himself.
TALIESIN: We didn't want it!
MARISHA: Okay, hang on, before we turn this into a
pissing contest--
SAM: He has slain things, he has saved things, and
I have as well! If we're talking about trust, what
on earth have any of you people done to earn our
trust? What have you done that we have requested? Ever?
LAURA: I let you have a ring.
SAM: I like you.
MARISHA: It's not about earning each other's
trust. Look, I have worked with some skeevey
motherfuckers in my day, very unsavory types. But
you know what I trust? That they have their own
self-preservation, right? So I can trust that
these motherfuckers don't want to get caught, and
that they don't want to die at the end of the day.
If you want to do something skeevey on the side,
let me know, I will help you out. But when we are
all working as a team, I don't want your actions
to get me in fucking trouble.
TALIESIN: So if you really don't trust us, I'll
happily take that 40 platinum back, right now.
MARISHA: We don't have to trust each other, but
when we are working on a job together, I want to
know that you care enough about yourself that
you're not going to get me in trouble.
TALIESIN: God, you're making me agree with her.
MARISHA: Fuck you, Molly.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Fuck you.
TALIESIN: See?
SAM: When we signed up for this job, Caleb was
very explicit. He said we are doing this for coin
and treasure, and that's what we got.
MARISHA: I agree with that.
SAM: There was no surprises here, we're in it for
what we can grab for ourselves.
TALIESIN: No, we're in it for what we can all grab
together. That's how these things work.
MARISHA: When you want to grab something for
yourself, you let me know, and you go grab it for
yourself, I don't have to be a part of it. When we
choose one objective together, I can only trust
that you are in it with us. We can be selfish as a
group, and then be selfish as individuals.
TALIESIN: This is why the circus worked. This is
why the circus was functional.
TRAVIS: You know, Nott, you count on Caleb to keep
you safe, right, to achieve greater things than
you by yourself can achieve. Think how many things
you could do with all of us by your side. I'm not
saying you don't have to be selfish, and I'm not
saying that you can't go after treasure and coin.
SAM: I think there's a bit of a misconception here.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: Is there?
SAM: Caleb and I have a very special relationship.
It is that of a parent and a child. But I am the
parent. You do understand that, correct? I protect
him. He's my boy, and I keep him safe. I want
him to thrive and get better and better, and more
powerful and stronger. Because he can achieve
great things. When I found him, he was nothing. He
was a scared little boy in the corner of a jail
cell. As we have gotten more comfortable, he has
gotten more comfortable and come out of his shell.
It's my job to protect him, because I love him,
and I am his protector. Not because he protects me.
TALIESIN: So do you think it would be a good idea
to explain to him that he almost got himself
killed tonight? Turning on a bunch of people he was
working with, he almost got himself killed tonight
for nothing.
MARISHA: You're not the only one who can have the
same interests in keeping each other safe.
TALIESIN: And you're not nearly as smart as you
think you are.
TRAVIS: If I may, thank you for sharing that,
Nott.
MARISHA: Oh yeah, thanks.
LAURA: That is so cute!
SAM: He's going to be a great man someday.
LAURA: He will! He really will!
TRAVIS: That changes things. I admit that I had
the wrong idea about you two. I know what it's
like to feel responsible for someone.
MARISHA: Man, super shame that Caleb's not here
for this entire conversation.
TALIESIN: I try not to have ideas about people,
they just get in the way.
LAURA: I just want to go down there and hug him!
TALIESIN: If you do, bring all of this stuff so he
can actually do something useful.
MARISHA: Let's go down there, why don't we camp in
the cellar?
SAM: That seems like it would be suspicious.
TALIESIN: No, he created this situation, I'm all
right with this.
LAURA: Does he know that you think of him like his
son?
SAM: I don't know that.
TALIESIN: Well, we get to tell him now, don't we?
LAURA: No, we can't out her like that.
TRAVIS: Nott, we want to take care of Caleb, we
do. We pulled him out of that house when that
Fireball went off. We didn't cut and run, even
though it might have saved our skins. We care
about you two. I hope in time you'll learn to
trust us just a little bit more. Maybe think about
protecting us as well, because you seem to do a
great job taking care of Caleb.
TALIESIN: And stop expecting people to earn
things. You just have to sometimes go with it.
SAM: I'll have a talk with him.
TRAVIS: I appreciate that.
MARISHA: I mean, not as nice as what they said, if
he ever does anything to get me fucking locked up
I will beat him so fucking bad his ancestors on
the next plane won't fucking recognize him.
SAM: That's very nice, Beau.
MARISHA: Thanks, I'm trying real hard.
SAM: Yeah, I could tell that there was at least
six more fucks in there that you held back.
(laughter)
SAM: That's progress.
MARISHA: Yeah, progress. I am an HR liability.
LIAM: What about in the game?
TRAVIS: So when are you planning to go down to
keep an eye on your boy?
SAM: As soon as you give me the stuff you want
identified. And you'll have to trust me that we
won't run away with it in the dead of night.
LAURA: Oh, now I feel like you really will because
everyone was just mean.
TALIESIN: We literally caught you stealing our
stuff. Here's an extra platinum.
SAM: Hey, you're the one who hypnotized me into
talking about stuff.
TALIESIN: I did.
SAM: Yeah, you think that's what friends do to
each other?!
TALIESIN: When they catch them stealing their
stuff, yes they do.
SAM: I don't think so. You think that's cool,
Beau?
MARISHA: You caught him stealing your stuff?
LAURA and SAM and TALIESIN: Her!
MARISHA: You caught her stealing your stuff?
TALIESIN: Fjord's stuff, technically.
SAM: I was not stealing! I was searching for
something to steal.
TALIESIN: She was stealing.
LAURA: What were you trying to find?
SAM: That's besides the point.
TALIESIN: Here, you can cast Friends on me, I'll
tell you everything you want to know.
SAM: I don't have Friends, he hasn't taught me
that one yet.
TALIESIN: Oh gods, suddenly I'm compelled to
answer everything truthfully! Oh no, more of
whatever you're drinking, I can't help, stop, ack!
MARISHA: This is the most I've liked either one of
you motherfuckers.
TALIESIN: I feel that.
TRAVIS: Nott, how about you take those items to
Caleb and call it a vote of confidence.
TALIESIN: There was an extra platinum in there.
SAM: All right.
MARISHA: And I pull out my bo. And I put it down
and I say, but I'll find ya. If anything else happens.
TRAVIS: I think he's got the point.
TALIESIN: Take the items and the unearned trust
downstairs.
SAM: Maybe you guys can have a talk with her
tonight.
TALIESIN: Oh no, that's coming too.
SAM: I know she's drunk, but--
LAURA: She's pretty drunk. You're pretty drunk,
Beau.
MARISHA: Y’all don't fucking know me.
(laughter)
SAM: I'm going to leave now.
TALIESIN: Take the things, we'll see you in a bit.
SAM: Have a good night, don't break into our room.
I'll go down with Caleb.
MATT: Caleb, as you're sitting there talking to
your skull.
LIAM: Oh, that was so brief. That was like five
minutes ago.
MATT: The door opens and Nott scuttles in, closes
the door behind and comes and joins you.
LIAM: How's it going up there?
SAM: I stole this fucking scroll for you.
LIAM: It's a scroll case, right?
MATT: Which one are you handing him?
SAM: The one from the Richter’s.
MATT: That's right, yeah.
SAM: I got it. I went back and got it.
LIAM: Does anybody know you took
this?
SAM: No.
LIAM: I set it on the ground. I pull Nott closer
to me, and I give Nott a kiss on the forehead.
Thank you.
SAM: Thank you for saving me tonight. You brought
me back from the dead. Oh. I think you used a
potion on me, didn't you?
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Here, take one of mine. I have two, it's
okay.
LIAM: You are too kind to me.
SAM: Of course. You keep me safe.
LIAM: Well, you know, I think maybe you have
guessed it before now, but I care a great deal
for you, and that is no small gift. Thank you.
SAM: Thank you. We lived, huh?
LIAM: Another day. You know, a little bit of me is
worried that this scroll case will explode, so I
think we should check that out first.
SAM: The folks upstairs gave me some more things
for you to check out as well. Are these things you
can do?
LIAM: Yeah, okay. I can get this done in about an
hour, I think. First, Nott, will you take the
scroll case and put it on the other side of the
room?
SAM: Okay.
LIAM: Yeah. I'm tapped, so this is all ritual
spells now. So I will use a ritual spell to
Identify the scroll case.
MATT: Okay. The scroll case is a scroll case. It
does have a faint magical element to it. The
limits of what Identify can--
LIAM: How big is this room down here?
MATT: I'd say it's about eight by 12.
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: So smaller than this.
LIAM: This is going to be funny. I take another
ten minutes to summon Schmidt.
SAM: Oh.
LIAM: Come with me outside, okay?
SAM: All right.
LIAM: Okay. Schmidt, go open the scroll case. Come
on! I shut the door.
MATT: Okay, you both back out, close the door.
SAM: (explosion) Oh no!
MATT: You hear (boom).
LIAM: That is what I was afraid of.
SAM: Oh shit! Was it loud enough that anyone else
could hear?
MATT: You don't know.
TRAVIS: Are you fucking serious?
MARISHA: Did any of us hear it from the second
floor?
MATT: Everyone else make a perception check,
please.
TALIESIN: Natural 20!
TRAVIS: Natural one!
LAURA: Ten.
MARISHA: 13.
MATT: You hear a slight shift in the ground.
SAM: It was that Agoura Hills earthquake.
MATT: Exactly.
LAURA: Did you just fart?
TALIESIN: You would think so, but no. I think
they're doing something.
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: I heard something.
MARISHA: Are they trying to fucking escape?
TRAVIS: I'm just eating bar popcorn.
TALIESIN: It sounded like a thump.
MARISHA: A fucking thump?!
LAURA: That doesn't sound like an escape.
MATT: Everything's messy.
LAURA: I hope they're not dead.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's something we can find out
in the morning.
LAURA: Does our room look down onto the alleyway?
MATT: Your room does not, no.
LIAM: So, at this point, back up a little bit, and
I open the door and back up to see what I see.
SAM: Smoke?
MATT: A purplish dark fume wafts out.
LIAM: I back away from it.
MATT: You back away from it, and it dissipates
over the next 30 or so seconds. You keep watch to
see if anybody else notices, and it doesn't. It
rises up, and thankfully by the time it would hit
the roof as a smoke beacon, it mostly has
dissipated enough in the sky where it doesn't
cause a column of visible darkness. The edge that
you're catching of it, the little bit that's
wafting through, has this very fine metallic smell
to it, almost. The brief bit that catches your nostrils,
you feel your sinuses open up very abruptly, and
like a mouth full of wasabi, it's like (coughing).
Eventually it clears out, and you walk inside.
LIAM: So not a ball of fiery death.
MATT: No, not a ball of fiery death.
LIAM: Okay, so it's cleared away, Schmidt's gone,
I assume.
MATT: Schmidt is--
LIAM: Well, if it wasn't damage-dealing, he's
still there.
MATT: It might have been damage-dealing.
SAM: I forget how this works, does he have your
hit points?
MATT: Unseen Servant.
LIAM: He has two. One or two.
MARISHA: He has the hit points of a kitten.
LIAM: One hit point.
MATT: Oh yeah, Schmidt is gone. The scroll case is
open.
LIAM: Okay, so it's clear. Next ritual spell that
I will cast, I will gather the other items, except
for the dodecahedron.
SAM: Was there anything in the box?
LIAM: Well, we're about to find out. The
dodecahedron is in my satchel at this point. I
push all the other items towards the case and
whatever is there, and I use ritual magic to
cast Detect Magic everywhere. I just cast it.
MATT: Both of the scrolls emanate-- You see within
the scroll case there's now two rolled-up scrolls
inside there, and they emanate a magical aura. The
longsword emanates a magical aura, the boots
emanate a magical aura, and your satchel is almost
distracting, the vibrancy of the magical source
from that object, the crystal-looking object.
LIAM: I rearrange my satchel so it's back by my
butt, so I don't have to look right at it. Okay,
we have a little bit of work to do. I pick up the
scrolls and examine them.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
LIAM: (gasps)
TRAVIS: What the fuck?
MARISHA: What, why are you getting teary, what is
happening?
SAM: It's a good spell.
MARISHA: Was it that good?
LIAM: Come here, come here!
SAM: What did we get?
LIAM: I pick her up and I hug her.
SAM: What did we get, what did we get?
LIAM: This will be good for the group, this will
be good for you and me, this is good. It's
something that I was not able to do. I've been
trying to figure it out for months and I have not
been able to figure it out and now I have it.
SAM: Yes!
LIAM: Okay, let's look at these things for
everybody else. Okay. Ho, ho, ho, let's Identify
all this shit! I spend the next 40 or so
minutes--
SAM: Sinterklaas!
MARISHA: Santa Klaus!
LIAM: Ah. Yeah.
SAM: Oh, and these daggers, too.
LIAM: Beau might like these. These are good. Yeah,
these are good. Okay, so. All right, we'll put
these away. This is a very good blade. This might
be a good blade for you. Why don't you hold on to
it? You hold onto that.
SAM: It's a longsword?
MATT: It's a longsword.
SAM: Can I use that?
LIAM: Oh. Let me see. I thought that was the
daggers.
SAM: (fake crying)
LIAM: So the daggers are not magic?
MATT: The daggers are not magic.
LIAM: Not magic.
MATT: They are just base daggers.
LIAM: No, this is bigger than you.
SAM: Too big for me. I know my limits.
LIAM: Fjord or Molly would like this. They can
decide. They can decide. I mean, really, these
boots are good for anybody. These are good for--
yeah.
LAURA: Just tell us what they are! Just say it out
loud! Just say it!
LIAM: No, I'll tell you on Christmas morning and
not before!
LAURA: You're killing me!
LIAM: We couldn't do this at all last campaign!
Now you have to wait 20 minutes!
MATT: It's true.
LAURA: (groans) I wonder if I have Identify I
could take...
TALIESIN: There's a way to do it.
SAM: Well, should we go to sleep?
LIAM: Oh, boy.
SAM: Oh, here's your 19 platinum, and your two
gold, and one extra platinum for some reason, as
if that were supposed to smooth things over. Oh,
and also, they don't trust us, they think we need
to cooperate more, they're trying--
MARISHA: Oh!
TRAVIS: Nope, you're not there.
MARISHA: Fuck!
SAM: They are very upset--
MARISHA: I'm not, I'm speaking as myself!
MATT and LAURA: (shushing)
SAM: They were very upset that we tried to take
the scroll box.
LIAM: Why?
SAM: Because they are in the firm belief that it
would have left some sort of clue that would have
led the authorities to us by stealing something,
after we had broken into two houses, stolen other
things, torn up a rug--
LIAM: That is the red flag. Not the arcane rug
that was destroyed and removed, covering his
precious things. Not Jester disguising herself as
the High-Richter.
SAM: Not stealing the seal.
LIAM: And leaving witnesses who had seen someone
who was not the Richter going in before the Richter--
SAM: Sure. Also, she was dressed as the Richter
not wearing the correct outfit.
LIAM: Yeah. Ulog rifled through her desk and took
some papers from there, but I did not see Fjord
tear him a new asshole.
SAM: Sure. But they are under the impression that,
and this a fair point, that we are not very
communicative or... We don't behave as much as
part of a team as they would prefer. I said that I
would tell you and discuss. And so that's where
it stands with the weirdos.
LIAM: Well, you know, I want this to work. So
whatever they need. I definitely do not agree, but
whatever makes it work.
SAM: I think what would make it work is letting
them take the lead a bit, and following.
LIAM: Well, I have no interest in being a leader,
do you?
SAM: Oh no, not at all.
LIAM: No.
SAM: But we can just see how it goes, playing
ball, I suppose.
LIAM: Do you know that I was going to go to that
school one day?
SAM: The Soltryce Academy thing?
LIAM: Yeah. Didn't work out.
SAM: What? You didn't get in?
LIAM: Oh, I didn't get anywhere near it. I'm from
a small town, and there was a lot of hubbub for
me, and maybe, you know, a gathering-up of coin. But
I fucked it up.
SAM: Did you do something wrong? Or bad?
LIAM: (whispers) Yeah.
SAM: You don't have to tell me what it was, or
what you did, but is it something that you can be
forgiven for?
LIAM: (clears throat) That is not for me to say.
But I have no interest in going. I will do it on
my own. Correction: I will learn with your help.
SAM: Our own academy?
LIAM: That's the idea. Ja.
SAM: All right. It'll take a little longer,
probably. I'm not a good teacher.
LIAM: Yeah, well, you know, anything worth going
after takes some elbow grease and hard work, so.
SAM: All right, well. I'll help wherever I can. I
do enjoy seeing you get new spells and new skills.
LIAM: I haven't had a friend in a very long time.
The last few months have been... unexpected.
SAM: I think for me, too. I've had more people
throw rocks at me than conversations, and it's
nice. You know what, it's nice with them, too.
They don't seem to mind that, you know, my teeth
are a little-- People find that off-putting,
sometimes.
LIAM: I do not. And I'll tell you another secret.
I like them, too. I get that they're angry. I
don't agree with them. But I get it.
SAM: Well, they're not as smart as you are, so.
LIAM: Or you, I would argue.
SAM: That's nice.
LIAM: Well, you want to bed down with a
terrifying artifact of awesome power?
SAM: I prefer the skeleton, actually.
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: I'll go on that side of the room.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: Night, Nott.
SAM: Night, Caleb.
MATT: All right, so. As you guys all come to sleep
for the evening, first off, we'll consider this
rest the milestone where you all hit level four.
(cheering)
MATT: So if you guys have decided on your
adjustments in advance, you can do that.
SAM: How do you do this on D&D Beyond?
MATT: While you guys figure that out, if I could
have everybody but Caleb leave the table, please.
LAURA and SAM: (surprised sounds)
SAM: Oh no.
LIAM: Get out of here.
MARISHA: What is happening to you now?!
TRAVIS: Yes!
SAM: I'm in the room!
MARISHA: Are we doing the level four thing now?
LAURA: So we're doing it.
MARISHA: Are we doing the level four thing, or we
doing it after?
TRAVIS: Just wait.
MATT: Just set up your stuff except for your hit
points; we'll roll those when you get back.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Pick up and walk.
LAURA: Okay okay okay!
SAM: Where do we go?
LAURA: This way!
TALIESIN: We're going this way.
LAURA: Bye, Caleb!
TRAVIS: I have to say it because Taliesin said it:
(whispers) Don't die.
SAM: Bring your dice so we can roll.
LIAM: I love you guys! I don't mean the Mighty
Nein, you're assholes, but I love you guys!
MARISHA: I'll kill you in your sleep! Okay, bye!
LAURA: You don't roll a d20 for hit points, Sam!
MARISHA: Grab all the dice. Grab all the dice!
LAURA: I'm grabbing my bag!
MATT: Don't roll hit dice! Roll hit points when
you come here!
SAM: How do you play Dungeons & Dragons?!
MATT: You won't need dice! You're fine.
LIAM: We did it. We reclaimed our dignity. We did
it.
MATT: We did it. Totally. So, as the dark takes your
dreams, sleep brings calm, brings peace, brings
rest. There's a soft hum that seems to radiate
around you. A welcoming softness. A light, not
quite white, not quite dark, it's a grayish,
familiar light, strangely. You feel it pull you
forward, through stars. The distant night sky. You
see beacons of light coast by. You
see a dark sphere before you. Then there's a flash
of light, and you're standing there and you're
holding the object in your hand which you keep.
It's welcoming. You look into it for a moment, and
look ahead, and you see yourself. And you see
another self. And you see another self. And a
fourth Caleb, and a fifth Caleb, and an endless
row of Calebs, all slightly different. All begin
walking in different directions at once. You look
down at the object and back up again and they're
all gone. You see a distant flame flicker. You
feel yourself hypnotized by its movement. You look
down again at it, and there's something wonderful
and ancient about this thing. You can't
grasp it. Its scale is both too large and too
small. The more your mind tries to make sense of
it, the more you feel yourself walking in 17
different directions at once. All those Calebs you
saw before are all within you and they're all
pulling at different sides and it confuses you. It
scares you for a moment, but once again you focus
back on this object and the warmth is comforting.
You look up again at the stars; they've stopped
passing by. They're held in place. And for the
first time in a long time, you feel at peace.
That's the end of your dream. All right, let's
bring everybody else back in, please. You wake up
in the cold, dark basement of this relatively
unused cellar beneath the Leaky Tap. Come to
consciousness with the most restful night's sleep
you've had in a long time, it feels, almost. You
look over at Nott curled up right against your
thigh, like a dog, asleep. Come on in.
(laughter)
SAM: I got scared of the skeleton so I came over
here.
MATT: (laughs) All right. So, first off, let's go
ahead and get a roll of hit points here, so we have--
LAURA: Oh, gosh!
MATT: We haven't done this live on air before!
LIAM: Oh man, here comes my extra one hit point.
SAM: That was like two minutes.
LAURA: We had no time!
SAM: We had no time to do anything!
MATT: That's okay. So go ahead and roll. As a
general rule, I reroll ones for hit points,
because nothing sucks more for a character than
leveling up and rolling a one. So now two is the
new sucky baseline. So go around the table. You
are rolling for hit points first, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Oh, okay. A d8, right?
MATT: d8 for the warlock, yes.
TRAVIS: Seven.
MATT: Seven, nice.
MARISHA: d8 for the monk as well. A four. Right
down the middle.
MATT: There you go.
MARISHA: Plus my con modifier, yeah?
MATT: Plus your con modifier, yes.
TRAVIS: Yeah, really, con modifier?
MATT: Yeah, every level. That's how it's always
been.
TRAVIS: I just forget. 11 points.
MATT: Caleb, d6.
LIAM: Plus my con modifier, it's a total of six.
So I'm sitting at a big 25 now.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: I roll a d8?
MATT: For you, yes. I believe it's a d8.
LAURA: Whoa, nice!
SAM: Eight!
MATT: Nice! All righty.
SAM: When I leveled up, it already gave me two
extra hit points. Why?
LAURA: Because that's your modifier.
MATT: That's your modifier.
SAM: Okay, so now I add the extra eight.
MATT: You add the eight to it. Yeah, it
automatically adds your level up to that. Roll yours.
LAURA: Aw, three.
MATT: There you go.
TALIESIN: d10, no con modifier?
MATT: No, you get con modifier.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: Every class gets a con modifier to hit
points.
TALIESIN: All right. Six!
MATT: There you go.
SAM: Oh my god, I just got ten extra hit
points!
LAURA: That's amazing.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: I feel like that was really bad. That was a
really bad roll.
MATT: It's okay. Sometimes you get better rolls
than others.
SAM: No, she's dead now.
MATT: (laughs) If you don't roll at least four hit
points, you die in your sleep.
LAURA: Yes, that's the rule.
MATT: If you die in the level-up, you die in real
life. All right, so anyway, continuing. The hit
points are the main thing, and your abilities, we
can keep tabs on that if it comes into play, and
we can define stuff after the episode tonight. But
anyway. As you all come to consciousness in the
morning, the day is before you. What do you wish
to do?
TRAVIS: I'm going to see Horris.
MATT: Horris is already awake and looking out the
window, and looks nervously.
TRAVIS: Horris, do you need an escort out of town,
or do you think you can find your way?
MATT: "I mean, an escort would be nice, just to have
somebody I can work with in case things go bad."
TRAVIS: Of course. Have much coin do you have on
you?
MATT: "On me? 20 gold."
TRAVIS: Oh, you'll be fine.
MATT: "It's enough to last me a while, yeah."
TRAVIS: Molly? Molly!
TALIESIN: Huh?
TRAVIS: Wake up. I think I'm going to escort
Horris out. Be back as fast as I can.
TALIESIN: All right, we'll wait for you.
TRAVIS: All right.
TALIESIN: I'm going to wake up and go see what the
girls are doing.
MATT: Okay. You guys get to get your breakfast
started and such. You guys begin to walk, heading
southward, since that was where the Alfield
suggestion was, making your way. The general
bustle is still happening. There's still not a lot
of crownsguard on the street corners you're used
to seeing them posted at, and as you make your way
towards the southern portion of the Interstead
Sprawl, to the southern gate, you can see why. The
exit gates are swarming with crownsguard. The
portcullis is down, with the smaller side doors
open, and every person who enters and exits is
being interviewed and being checked as to whether
or not they're allowed to leave. It seems that
lock-down is very serious during this
investigation. Horris immediately clamps up and
grabs your arm and goes, "I don’t-- I don't
know--"
TRAVIS: Stay casual, stay calm, just turn and
we're going to slowly start walking back. Just act normal.
MATT: "Okay." You both slowly make your way
through that intersection and back, and no one
seems to pay much mind. They're consumed with the
current hustle and bustle at the gate. As you guys
are walking back, Horris is like, "Is there another
way out? Is there someone, something you know--"
TRAVIS: There always is. And if all else fails,
there's the sewers. You're not opposed to getting
a little dirty to get out of town, are you?
MATT: "No, no, no."
TRAVIS: We'll want to wait until we have more of
the others, just in case. I'm afraid the sewers
might be being cased as well, so stay put for a
little while longer, we'll find you a quiet spot
in the Leaky Tap, but let me check with the
others.
MATT: "Okay, okay." All right. As you guys are
getting the rest of your morning on, what do you
want to do?
LAURA: Get the rest of my morning on.
MATT: Getting your morning on.
TALIESIN: I'm going to point out, because I took
Tough--
MATT: Oh yeah, all right.
TALIESIN: So I'm at 49 hit points
SAM: Ooh!
MATT: Damn, dude!
SAM: That’s a lot!
TALIESIN: But now I burn through more to use my
swords.
SAM: Do we have to find Dolan now?
TRAVIS: No, we found Dolan last night. He's going
to stay put in his house, low. We're going to try
and assure that he's safe so that he can, you
know, put his name up for that High-Richter seat.
MARISHA: We've got to figure out what we're doing
with this thing.
TRAVIS: But listen, the gates, it's not a joke,
it's sealed. There are crownsguard swarming all
over it. It seemed like they were doing personal
interviews, pat-downs, the whole smash, so even an
enchantment might not hold up to scrutiny.
LAURA: Wasn't there a woman who was also
(whispers) part of the Knights of Requital?
MARISHA: Yeah, Kara.
LAURA: What happened to her?
MARISHA: She was the most shifty bitch.
TRAVIS: We didn't see her last night. She wasn't
at Dolan's.
LAURA: But she saw you guys.
TRAVIS: Well, she saw-- Yes, she did.
LAURA: At one of the meetings.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: She never said a whole lot.
LAURA: If anyone is going to turn us in, it would
be her.
TRAVIS: Perhaps.
MARISHA: She's the one I arguably know the least
about--
LAURA: Where's Horris? Maybe he knows something
about her.
MATT: You look behind Fjord at this point, and in
the doorway is Horris, arms crossed, biting his
lower lip.
LAURA: Horris?
MATT: "Yes?"
LAURA: Do you know where Kara is?
MATT: "I honestly don't. We scattered when the
preparations were done to make sure we were far
"apart so we couldn't be traced together."
LAURA: Do you know where she lives?
MATT: "I don't, actually."
LAURA: Do you know what she does?
MATT: "She says she occasionally works out of that
really terrible bar, the Evening--"
LAURA: The Evening Nip? She works at the Evening
Nip?
MATT: "I don't go there."
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: We've got to get our Nip on. Ooh, wait, maybe
not.
MARISHA: Well, Jester and I know the code to talk
to the Gentleman if we ever want to do that.
TRAVIS: Indeed. I was thinking that we might try
and get Horris out now. That way, if a crownsguard
finds its way here-- maybe we should take him into
the sewers, get him out of the city.
LAURA: Do the sewers lead out of the city?
TRAVIS: I imagine.
MARISHA: Generally when a city is on lockdown,
though, the sewers is the first place that guards
are looking for shady people to leave.
MATT: "That's true."
MARISHA: Where's our cart? We still have our gypsy
wagon.
SAM: Oh god, we haven't fed the horses in days.
MARISHA: No, we haven't.
(laughter)
MATT: The horses are being taken care of. The
horses will be fine. The manticore head, though,
that's probably a whole different order of
business.
LAURA: The manticore head. Oh, I bet it smells so
bad!
SAM: So we left the horses at a stable or
something? Okay. They're not dead in an alley
somewhere?
LAURA: Oh god.
TALIESIN: Trying to rip the cart off the dead
horses.
MATT: "Oh! Excuse me!"
MARISHA: Is our cart in the city or is it outside
the city?
MATT: No, you brought it in the city with you.
MARISHA: We can bury him under a pile of produce
or something like that, try and sneak him out of
the city.
TALIESIN: I think we would need a proper smuggler
for that.
TRAVIS: Indeed.
TALIESIN: A well-built cart with a secret
compartment.
SAM: Get a big catapult and just--
MATT: "Do you know a smuggler?"
TALIESIN: No, I don't know a smuggler. I don't
know anybody in this city.
SAM: Wait, we know a smuggler.
LAURA: Yeah, we do know a smuggler.
SAM: Who was the guy who first showed us around
the city?
LAURA: Ulysses! Ulysses Stanneras!
TALIESIN: Oh god.
SAM: Yeah.
LAURA: He was in that yellow cloak. Remember?
MARISHA: Also, you know who we haven't checked up
on? Bryce's sister. Right? Her sister?
SAM: Their sister.
MARISHA: Their sister, sorry. Bryce's sister.
SAM: I totally forgot about that.
TRAVIS: I did, too.
SAM. And also there's the Gentleman, and also we
need a lead box. Oh my God, there's so much to do!
LAURA: We need a lead box. Should we go try to buy
a lead box?
SAM: Or maybe Pumat would have some sort of a
magical-encasing--
LAURA: But how would we tell him why we need it?
SAM: He doesn't care, does he?
LAURA: Don't you think somebody would be asking,
"Who recently bought something that would protect
"against scrying?"
TRAVIS: Horris, we obviously have a lot to decide
on. Perhaps it would be better if you stayed up in
the room.
MATT: "I can do that. I'll lock myself in there,
and let me know if anything comes up."
TALIESIN: We have some reading, if you like. I'm
going to grab the copy of Tusk Love.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Try and relax. But not too much.
MATT: "All right." Horris gives you a long look
of, "I've learned a lot about you in the moment."
(laughter)
SAM: We should write Tusk Love and sell it on the
store.
MATT: I'm sure the community is already halfway
there, buddy. (laughs) All right. So, Horris is
taken care of for the moment. What's the plan?
MARISHA: Is Broken Veil the name of a tavern here,
or was it in Alfield?
MATT: The Broken Veil?
LAURA: I know I wrote it down.
MARISHA: I think I messed up and I wrote down
where she is, but I don't know where--
LAURA: I'm trying to find where I wrote down
Bryce's connections. I think I wrote it down in a
different--
MARISHA: No, wait.
SAM: Was he in Alfield? She. They! Were they in
Alfield?
MARISHA: Yes. Bryce is in Alfield.
SAM: Bryce Fayled? Fell-lid? Fee-lid?
MARISHA: Yeah. Feelid. Bryce Feelid. Watchmaster
Bryce Feelid. Elf. Leader of the guard. Very sweet
person. These are all the things I wrote down.
TRAVS: Great notes. Jesus.
MATT: (laughs)
TRAVIS: “Very sweet person.”
MARISHA: Bryce despises the Dwendalian Empire,
thinks they get no support being so far south from
the Dwendalian Empire. He's not from this region.
And then I wrote down ‘Broken Veil’ and ‘Bluffs’.
LAURA: So it's got to be that.
MATT: Okay, so yes, I know what you're talking
about now. Thank you for the heads-up on that. So
the Broken Veil Bluffs is to the far, far east.
That is where the border of the Dwendalian Empire
and Xhorhas is. It's actually where most of the
conflicts happen. It's where the garrisons exist.
Where most of the army is sent to defend the
Empire in the valley.
TRAVIS: Level four, let's go!
(laughter)
MATT: You are ready for this shit!
LAURA: The radiation area in Fallout. It's like,
get out! Get out now!
MARISHA: You're unprepared!
TRAVIS: (computer voice) You are leaving the
combat area.
MARISHA: So I didn't-- I don't have the name of
her damn--
MATT: Their.
MARISHA: Their damn sister!
LAURA: And I can't find it in these notes either.
Shit.
SAM: If Caleb was in the room when Bryce said it,
then Caleb would know.
MARISHA: I think Caleb was, because it was right
when we said we were going to Zadash and Bryce was
like, "Go look at this person." Sorry, I choked on
my spit.
MATT: Bryce was the one that sent you to the Leaky
Tap. Bryce is the one that sent you to Claudia.
LAURA: Yes.
MARISHA: Wait, is Claudia his sister?
MATT: No.
MARISHA: Am I going around in circles?
MATT: I think you're going in circles.
SAM: There was no sister?
MATT: I don't recall there--
LAURA: --being a sister. It was Claudia!
SAM: Well, if Matt doesn't recall the sister, then
it was Claudia!
MARISHA: It was Claudia. Was it Claudia this whole
time?
MATT: I was like, what did I say about Bryce's
sister, oh shit?
MARISHA: It was Claudia. Never mind!
SAM: Mystery solved!
LAURA: No wonder I don't have it in my notes.
MATT: There you go. Once again!
SAM: We did it!
LAURA: We figured it out!
TRAVIS: Chat's like, "Fucking idiots."
MATT: If I did say sister, remind me.
SAM: Well, that takes one thing off the list. We
still need: The lead box! Get Horris out of town!
The Gentleman! What else?
TRAVIS: The Leaky Nip. What's it called?
LAURA: The Evening Nip.
SAM: That's the Gentleman also.
MATT: The Leaky Nip?!
LAURA: That's going to be me in a few months.
TALIESIN: Bam! Bam!
MATT: That's a different establishment.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: That's a daycare.
LIAM: Wow. This ain't your kids' D&D, right there!
SAM: The Leaky Nip? I mean, the Evening Nip,
should we go there?
LAURA: No, we need a lead box, that's
probably more important.
MARISHA: And get Horris out first, right?
TRAVIS: Pumat's got to have a--
LAURA: Or a blacksmith. I feel like a blacksmith
would be more--
SAM: He was telling us about blacksmiths before.
There's the Spark Hammer Smith. We could go to the
Spark Hammer Smith in the Pentamarket.
LAURA: Yeah. Let's go to that.
TRAVIS: Have we been there yet?
SAM: I think we actually have been there before.
LAURA: Yeah, that was the first place we went.
SAM: Yannick. Jan?
MATT: Caleb.
LIAM: Yeah?
MATT: For the hell of it, make an arcana check.
LIAM: Sure. I've just been nerding out over my
leveling up over here.
MATT: I know.
SAM: He got 75 new spells.
LIAM: Oh, I rolled a one, Matthew.
MATT: Fuck, okay.
TRAVIS: I rolled a natural 20.
LIAM: I rolled it really badly. I'm not good at
dice.
MATT: It's fine. All right, continue.
LAURA: You need to take Luck as a feat again.
LIAM: It doesn't always work out for you anyway.
TRAVIS: I know magic some!
SAM: I'm a student of magic.
TRAVIS: Not enough, DM says.
MATT: It's not about not enough, it's placement
and what you have and where you are. So what are
you guys doing?
SAM: We're going to go to the Spark Hammer
Smith's. Smithy's.
MARISHA: Yannick and Jan.
MATT: You find your way there. Yannick is inside
currently, working on hammering out the edges of a
piece of armor. "Hello. Can I help you?"
LAURA: Yes. Do you make anything out of lead?
MATT: "I mean, I certainly can. Depends what
you're hoping to have made."
LAURA: Could you perhaps make me a really pretty--
so, my mother is a big fan of things made out of
lead. She said she likes the color of that metal.
MATT: "That's a very curious liking, but sure,
I'll take it."
LAURA: She gets a lot of things in gold and
stuff and so she says that lead looks very
different from that and she thinks it's pretty.
MATT: "Hey, I'm not judging."
LAURA: So I want to make her a really pretty
jewelry box out of lead.
MATT: The halfling scratches his temple and goes,
"Well, I mean, if you're willing to pay, I can make it."
LAURA: Okay! It's like she has a lot of jewelry,
so something like around this big.
MATT: "It's going to be a lot of lead, and a few
days to make it."
SAM: Can it just be lead-lined? Is that a thing?
LIAM: It can be thin as a sheet of parchment.
LAURA: Oh, so not a whole lead box, maybe like a
box made out of wood and then pretty lead on the inside.
MATT: "That there's a little more easy
to put together."
LAURA: Or maybe on the outside so she doesn't
realize it's not made of lead?
LIAM: It doesn't need to be as-- Am I here? I've
been doing this with my spells.
MATT: That's up to you. Sure.
LIAM: It needs to be sealed all the way around and
be able to close.
LAURA: He's a good friend of my mom's.
MATT: "Right."
SAM: Everybody knows her mom.
MATT: "Okay, we’ll go ahead and get started on
that there. Full cost to you, two days' work, materials.
"That'll run you back about one and a half gold.
One gold, five silver."
LAURA: I think that is acceptable, yes.
MATT: "All right."
LAURA: Here. Will you also engrave it with, "Love
you so much"?
MATT: "It'll be an additional silver."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "All right. Come back here in about 48
hours. Should be good."
LAURA: Okay. If we give you more, could you make it
faster?
MATT: "I could certainly do my best."
LAURA: I noticed they’re blocking up the gates,
and I need to get it to her because her birthday’s
coming up.
MATT: "I am but one small halfling, so you’re
going to have to wait one way or the other."
LAURA: All right.
MATT: "Sorry."
LAURA: Okay. Thank you.
MATT: "No worries, mate! Come back then."
MARISHA: Our blacksmith is Taika Waititi. So into
it.
LIAM: Are we all in a group, though? Sorry, I
really did have my head up the ass of level four.
MATT: You guy haven’t said you’ve split, so I
imagine you’re all as a group.
LAURA: That’s a couple days.
LIAM: Okay.
LAURA: Should we check with Pumat Sol and see if
he has something like that?
LIAM: Like a lead-- I would pay premium price to
get a hold of a lead box right away.
MARISHA: You all keep talking about this Pumat Sol
guy.
TRAVIS: Have you not been to the Invulnerable
Gentleclerk?
MARISHA: No. I don’t do the magic stuff. I tend to
do other things.
LIAM: Yeah, but this is more like an experience,
like Sleep No More. You have to go and--
MARISHA: Oh, really?
LIAM: Yeah, you have to see it for yourself. We do
have a lot to do, but this is a functional trip as well.
TALIESIN: I’m normally not impressed by
eccentrics, so this is really impressive.
LIAM: This is a functional trip as well. A
gentleman like Pumat Sol-- gentlemen like Pumat
Sols-- would most likely-- because they understand
divination, and the needs of the arcane.
MARISHA: See, it feels like an inside joke.
TALIESIN: It is.
LIAM: We want you to be in on it.
LAURA: He would be more aware of what we're
asking for, if we asked for it. As opposed to the
blacksmith.
LIAM: Yeah, he would not be surprised by the
question.
LAURA: Okay.
LIAM: Also, come over here. Please.
LAURA: Just me?
LIAM: Well, whoever-- everybody hears this. Come
closer. Yeah, so--
TRAVIS: (belches loudly)
(laughter)
MATT: My hair went (wind sounds) on that one.
LIAM: I look around to see if anyone was
distracted by Fjord’s large belch.
MATT: At the moment, no. It seems to be a common
thing here in the Pentamarket.
LIAM: All right. I know you’re all a big fan of my
sticky fingers. I took this from Sutan’s house.
SAM: What is that? What does it do?
LAURA: What is it?
LIAM: It is a sending stone. It's a communication
device. This was in Sutan’s house. This was under
the rug that we destroyed and removed.
LAURA: That attacked us, you mean.
LIAM: Yes, of course. We did what we had to do. We
improvised. Like Fjord told me the other day: you
have to improvise. This stone has a twin somewhere
and we can talk with it. I don’t know who it is.
Honestly, my opinion is, the probability of
someone trying to find us, searching for this
thing, is like looking for a needle in a haystack
in a newly made warzone. However, in the meantime,
I was wondering if you’d hold it inside of your
fancy bag, because--
LAURA: Will they be able to find it through the
fancy bag?
LIAM: I believe not, because inside your bag is
somewhere else. It is not even on this plane.
LAURA: I hold it up to my ear. Is anybody trying
to talk to me right now?
MATT: Not at the moment.
LIAM: Let’s put that in your bag right away, because
we don’t know what’s on the other side of it.
LAURA: How do we-- oh, okay. Can they hear me
talking to it right now?
LIAM: There is a very, very small chance the answer
is yes, so please put it in your bag right now.
MARISHA: So you started stealing stuff in the
first house?
LIAM: Yeah. That is what I said that I was going
to do.
TRAVIS: To be fair, he did say that.
TALIESIN: We had the talk. I’m willing to let it
slide.
MARISHA: We had the talk with her
TALIESIN: That’s fair. Ah! Sword. Boots. Daggers.
LAURA: Wait. Don’t pass it out out here.
TALIESIN: Oh, not right here, of course.
LIAM: Do we want to do it before Pumat, or after
Pumat?
LAURA: Before.
SAM: One little interjection. Couldn’t we use the
sending thing to find out information if we sent a
message?
LIAM: All we could do is say hello to a stranger.
We don’t know who it is.
LAURA: Would it hear our voice, or would it-- ?
LIAM: It would hear our voice.
SAM: We could disguise our voice and say, "We’ve
been made! Send instructions!" and find out what
happens.
LIAM: That is true. Just keep it in the bag for
now, just in case.
MARISHA: That’s pretty good, though.
LIAM: Yeah. We could certainly roll this over in
our minds and see if there’s something we could do
with it. If someone is going to look for this
thing-- and, again, probability very low-- but if
they were going to look, it’d be right away. It’d
be a couple of weeks.
LAURA: What if we say to it, "Hey man! We found
this stone on the ground. Who do you belong to?"
What do you think?
TALIESIN: I think that’s-- It could be dangerous.
It’s better if they initiate, because then we learn
information immediately.
SAM: Sometimes if you scroll through and find a
listing for mom?
LAURA: I know, and then you call the mom?
LIAM: I believe possible that at some point a
message could come through it.
TALIESIN: That’s what I was thinking.
LIAM: But we don’t know. I just want-- for the
next two to four weeks-- I would prefer to keep it
either in a lead-lined container or in that bag. Chances
are small, but if someone was really determined.
LAURA: Okay.
LIAM: It’s possible.
LAURA: All right. It's in the bag.
TRAVIS: Pumat, or the rest of the equipment?
SAM: We could probably divvy up the equipment at
Pumat's. He won’t ask any questions.
TRAVIS: Let’s do it.
LAURA: How do you know? How do you know he's not
working for the Empire?
TRAVIS: He’s pretty nice.
LAURA: The only store in the Empire.
TRAVIS: He seems like a nice guy.
LAURA: He's probably working for the Empire.
LIAM: I would agree with Fjord's sentiment. If we
took it out of my own bag-- There's four of Pumats
so one of those Pumats would see it coming out of
my own stuff.
TRAVIS: Plus, we’re returning customers.
LIAM: Yeah, that’s also true.
MARISHA: Wait, what are you agreeing with? That
he's nice or that he's working for the Empire?
LIAM: No, that he's nice.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: I don’t want to trust him.
LIAM: We could also go to a breakfast shop and do
it there.
MARISHA: The two aren't mutually exclusive. We
know that, right? He can be nice and working for
the Empire.
LAURA: I had a dream about Pumat Sol attacking
us.
SAM: You did not!
TRAVIS: Attacking us?
LAURA: I did. I had a dream about it.
SAM: What?! That seems terrible!
LAURA: This is Laura actually. I did have a
dream.
MATT: What, are you serious? That’s terrifying!
TALIESIN: I was starting to go in that direction
of: Is this a real thing?
LAURA: No, it really was. It was a dream that
Pumat Sol betrayed us and he attacked us all.
Anyway--
TALIESIN: This is Clarota aftershock.
LAURA: I’m just letting you know. We don't know
anything about him.
SAM: Oh my god.
TRAVIS: I think if you give him a chance, he'll do
you right.
SAM: (banjo music)
LAURA: Anyway, I don't want to bring out all of
this stuff from the assassin guy in front of him!
TALIESIN: Let's go shopping at Pumat Sol’s and
then we’ll divvy up everything when we’re in private.
MATT: You guys making your way to the
Pentamarket?
LAURA: Yes.
LIAM: (Pumat voice) Respectfully, we are.
MATT: Okay. It’s still early morning, relatively.
You make your way to the warm, welcoming interior
of the Invulnerable Vagrant. There are no other
patrons in there. You do see, across the way, one
Pumat Sol is sitting behind the counter with
knitting needles. There is one off to the side in
a chair that’s currently reading through a book,
the small set of glasses on the tip of his wide
nose. They both look up and go, "Why, hello there!
That's just a real nice thing to see you this
"early in the morning. Just about to finish my
breakfast snack, so you caught me at a good time."
MARISHA: The fuck?
LAURA: Are you open all the time?
SAM: This is normal, it’s okay!
MATT: "Not all the time. We generally do a cycle
of sunrise to about four hours past sunset. That's
"our general scheme that we maintain business."
TRAVIS: Pumat, we'd like to introduce you to one
of our friends. This is Beau.
MARISHA: 'Sup?
MATT: "Beau? Well, the pleasure is respectfully
mine." He reaches out, giant hand encompasses your
entire fist.
MARISHA: Little clammy.
MATT: He puts the book down. Takes his glasses
off. "What can I do for you?"
LAURA: Well, my mom's birthday is coming up, and
she really likes boxes that have-- Do you have a
lead-lined box?
MATT: "We've got quite a few here currently
containing items that require shielding."
LAURA: Oh, good!
MATT: "Yeah!"
LAURA: Can we get one of those?
MATT: "That can probably be done. How big a box
you're looking? We got them right around that
"there. Then we got a bigger one about that there.
Then we got one in the back that’s a biggie."
LAURA: Probably the grande. The middle.
MARISHA: I was thinking the same thing!
MATT: "All right. Let me go ahead and--"
SAM: Wait! Mr. Pumat, what is it made of? What
does it do?
MATT: "Well, what the nice lady there is
requesting is a box that is lined with the
"material known as lead."
SAM: I've heard of the material, but does it have
any other magical properties?
MATT: "No magical properties. It’s just really
useful for poisoning yourself if you put food
"storage in there, poisoning other people if you
store their food in it, and keeping at bay the
"prying eyes of distant divination magics."
SAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: I think we’re probably going to need a
couple of healing potions as well.
SAM: Yeah, to replenish.
MATT: "Not a problem."
TALIESIN: I’m going to window shop, then! Thank
you.
TRAVIS: Pumat, we came into a little extra coin
recently and this is our favorite place to spend.
You don’t happen to have any articles of
protection, do you? A necklace, a bracelet, a ring?
MATT: "Well, we got this here cloak here on the
wall. I think you’ve already taken a look at it.
"That’s a pretty protective--"
TRAVIS: It was expensive, right?
TALIESIN: It was expensive.
MATT: The other one who's knitting is like, "Yeah,
it’s a pretty penny because that’s a pretty item."
Goes back to knitting.
LIAM: Sorry, how much precisely was that one
again?
MATT: "That one will run you about 800 gold
pieces."
LAURA: Still out of the reach there.
LIAM and MARISHA: (singing) How much is that doggy
in the window?
MATT: "We got this nice shield over here that we
just had finished a couple days ago. That's an
"enchanted little delightful piece. That one is a
little more affordable at about 550 gold pieces."
LAURA: What does it look like, though?
MATT: The shield itself has the head of two lions,
facing away from each other, with their claws
extended. It has almost a diamond shape. It's a
pretty decent size. The coloration of it is a
bright gold where the lions are. The back of it is
a dull, almost graphite metallic, with a gold
border around the edge of it. It’s very pretty.
LAURA: What does it do?
MATT: "This one? It improves your defenses more
than a normal shield would. It instinctively
"places the shield in places that might help
protect from incoming blows, therefore making you
"hard to connect with."
LAURA: Oh. That's pretty cool.
MATT: (whispers) "It's a plus one."
(laughter)
LAURA: How much is your fancy box?
MATT: "The fancy box that you’re requesting, while
not actually enchanted, it is taking away one of
"the objects that we keep contained. So,
respectfully, I'll have to charge you the cost of
"that one and a replacement, but that'll simply put
you back about 15 gold pieces total."
LAURA: It's probably smart, though, huh? It's probably
made a bit better.
MARISHA: I'll go in on it. What was in the box
though, originally?
MATT: "That is none of your concern."
MARISHA: How much to make it my concern?
MATT: "Your friend is a strange one."
LAURA: She really is. She's always asking
questions that are weird.
LIAM: She is very useful in the right
circumstances.
MATT: "Oh, I can entirely understand that."
MARISHA: I'm right here! I can hear you all
talking about me.
LAURA: She can catch arrows out of midair.
MATT: "That's really impressive."
SAM: Mr. Pumat, I have another request. I know
that I had requested, would it be possible to
invent a small haversack? Just the pocket thing.
But do you have any sort of magic incantation
ability-- if I gave you a flask, could you make it
never run out of alcohol?
MATT: "Actually, that is a very doable
enchantment. It'll take us a little while, but we
"can definitely make something like that happen."
SAM: How much would that R&D cost me?
MATT: "About a week's worth of enchanting time,
the cost will put you at about 250 gold pieces."
SAM: I'll take it.
(laughter)
SAM: Here's my platinum flask. Could you also put
a nice little flourishy design on the side of the flask?
MATT: "We can go ahead and outsource that. Yeah,
we can make that happen for you, couldn't we?" The
one knitting goes, "Yeah, that's not a problem at
all."
SAM: Oh wow.
LAURA: That’s a lot of gold.
SAM: That's nothing. It's nothing at all.
MATT: "You’re going to pay up for now, up front?"
SAM: Sure. Here, take it.
MATT: "Oh, the whole lump sum up front!"
SAM: Yep! All up front!
MATT: "I appreciate your trust in our ability."
Writes up a quick little piece of paper. Hands it
to you as a receipt.
LAURA: We should buy that box?
LIAM: We definitely should. I will buy that box
for us. How much was it?
LAURA: It was 15 gold.
MATT: "15 gold pieces for the box. You wanted two
healing potions? That’ll put you back about 100
"gold pieces for the two."
TRAVIS: That sounds fine.
MARISHA: Any other healing potions you got?
MATT: "We got probably another dozen or so more if
you want to buy."
MARISHA: I’ll take one more as well.
TRAVIS: Here’s ten platinum.
MATT: "Ten whole platinum. All right there. 50
gold from each of you. That’s a healing potion to
"each of you."
LIAM: Also, I assume it is out of my reach
price-wise, and I'm on a budget, but do you deal
in arcane knowledge? Pre-prepared scrolls of any
kind?
MATT: "Yeah. We have certainly many number of
various scrolls and scroll types and spells. If
"that's what you're looking for, we can definitely
provide."
LIAM: What is the range? What are your lowest
rung, I guess I'm curious to know.
MATT: "I'm going to go ahead and double-check
here." He goes through his ledger. "Let's see. The
"very basic ones, whether that be cantrips or
1st-level spellcasting, those are fairly common.
"Those will put you back about 50 to 100 gold,
approximately."
LIAM: DM, a question from Liam. Can cantrips be
added if they're found?
MATT: I imagine they could.
LIAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: Greater healing potion, yeah?
MATT: No, it's a regular healing potion. Regular
heal. "If you're going up from there to 2nd- or
"3rd-level, those'll put you back probably closer
to maybe 250-500 gold, depending, and then it
"skyrockets from there."
LIAM: You know, I am interested in everything from
the second level and below. Do you have a menu?
MATT: "I mean, we have to order them from the
Academy, but we can get them in here for you. Or
"the Halls of Erudition."
LIAM: Give me a moment. Player's Handbook!
MARISHA: Taliesin, are you seeing-- wait, no. Are
you seeing the potion of healing?
SAM: Go to your D&D Beyond app; it has all the
manuals.
TALIESIN: Potion of healing.
MARISHA: I'm only seeing the greaters.
TALIESIN: Careful if you’re filtering by type. I
was having a problem with that. It's "potion of
"healing."
LAURA: We should probably get back and put the
thing in this box, though.
MATT: The box is presented, you pay for that, 15
gold.
TALIESIN: It's black. It's not green, blue, or
purple. It's black text. It took me a second to
realize.
SAM: Maybe you should cancel the order. Have him
make something else.
LAURA: What should we have him make?
SAM: A flask.
MATT: A lead flask. It's weird, every level the
intelligence gets lower.
TRAVIS: Well, should we go?
LIAM: Hold your horses.
TRAVIS: Oh, we're looking up something.
MATT: While this is happening, Pumat picks up the
book again and puts the glasses on, and starts
continuing to read.
TALIESIN: I was doing a look around to see if
there was anything new.
SAM: Did we get any healing potions?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: I got one.
SAM: Do you need any more, Caleb?
LIAM: No, I am very good, thank you.
LAURA: I'll buy a healing potion.
TALIESIN: 12.
MATT: Right, so another 50 off you. 12, nothing at
the moment. It's only been a few days, and the
enchantment process and/or the coming in of new
objects can take a while to stock back up. The
shield is the most recent creation that was
presented. That's the only new one you see. Other
than that, there's still the pearl, there's still
the cloak. A few other odds and small wands.
TALIESIN: The cloak was the most exciting thing.
TRAVIS: Forgive me, I couldn't help but wonder.
Have you ever had a chance-- Pumat Prime, rather--
have you had a chance to exercise your arcane
abilities?
MATT: "Oh, if you want Pumat Prime, he's in the
back. I can go get him for you."
TRAVIS: Yeah, if you wouldn't mind.
MATT: "All right." He puts the book down on the
counter, glasses off, turns around, leaves. Comes
back in, takes the glasses, puts them on, takes
the book, and continues reading, while Pumat Prime
comes from the back, once again, the large set of
goggle glasses on, the apron on. "I was told that
"I was requested to greet you with a 'hello!'"
MARISHA: What is happening?
TRAVIS: These are all-- What's the correct term?
LAURA: Sicrulalium?
MATT: "Simulacrum. That's the one, yeah. I know,
it's a little confusing."
TRAVIS: They're all copies of this fine gentleman.
Pumat, I wanted to ask, we're such fans of your
store, did you ever find call to, I don't know,
use your magic for combat? What led you to a store
like this?
MATT: "That's kind of a personal story. Let's just
say I didn't get along with my peers at a young
"age, and found myself wandering. Got picked up by
some nice mages that saw some potential. Took me
"in and helped me hone my craft, and helped me set
up a store, and here I am in Zadash."
TRAVIS: That's great. How many years have you had
this store?
MATT: "Been running this place for a good 12
years."
TRAVIS: Congratulations. It's really a thing.
MATT: "Thank you."
LAURA: What mages were you with? What mages found
you? Were they with the Academy?
MATT: "Sort of. They were with the Cerberus
Assembly."
LAURA: That's right, you were talking about them
before.
MATT: "Yeah. They really--" Oh no.
SAM: It gets caught in the corners.
TRAVIS: Shake it out of the corners of the giant
flask.
LIAM: Oh no!
MARISHA: What is hiding in those corners, though?
SAM: Good stuff.
MATT: "The main person who's been of aid to me is
the Headmaster Oremid Hass, who runs the Hall of
"Erudition."
SAM: We still haven't gone there, have we? We've
heard about it, like, seven times!
MARISHA: He runs the Hall of Erudition?
MATT: "He's the Headmaster of the Hall." He
scratches his chin for a second. "He's the
"Archmage of Cultivation within the Cerberus
Assembly. He's been a real nice beacon of
"tutelage. He's a bit rough on the edges, and seems
tough, but he's a softie. Especially when it comes
"to small critters. Don't tell him I said that."
For that one moment, you see a look of fear in his eyes.
TRAVIS and LIAM: Small critters.
SAM: Wait, he likes small critters? Like me?
MATT: "Maybe? I don't know. Anyway, I got to get
back to work." He quickly goes into the back room again.
TRAVIS: Thanks for your time, Pumat!
MATT: "Don't mention it!" The one that's reading
off to the sides goes--
SAM: He's cool, right?
MARISHA: That guy's crazy!
TRAVIS: He's actually still here.
MARISHA: Gah!
LIAM: Let's get back to business. I don't know
what you have on tap here, but I'm looking for
something, just a cantrip, pretty common,
shocking--
MATT: "Shocking Grasp. I know what you're talking
about."
LIAM: You know how it works?
MATT: "I got it myself. Anyone want to see?"
TRAVIS: I would like it.
LAURA: Okay!
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: "All righty. I like the gumption." He goes
and gives a big old handshake to Beauregard. Let
me look that up real fast.
MARISHA: I don't know what I'm agreeing to.
MATT: It's an auto-hit, because you're reaching
out to it. You immediately grab his giant mitt,
and a flash of white light and pain as electricity
rocks through your body. You take three points of
lightning damage.
MARISHA: (yelps) Fuck!
LIAM: That is the one.
MARISHA: Get that!
MATT: "That one will run you 75 gold pieces."
LIAM: Excellent. Pause. The other thing--
MATT: "Hands. They look paws-ish, but yeah."
LIAM: The other one that I am interested in that
is not really my forte, but many wizards believe
it is of great benefit. Do you have the Shield
spell?
MATT: "We can get you a Shield spell. That's a
pretty standard defensive mechanism for those of
"the arcane persuasion."
LIAM: How much will that run me?
MATT: He thumbs through the ledger. "That one will
cost you about 200 gold pieces."
LIAM: I will take the pair.
MATT: "All righty there."
SAM: What was the first one?
LAURA: Shocking Grasp.
SAM: We'll be twinsies.
MATT: "275 gold pieces." He sets his book back
down, puts his glasses down, leaves the room for a
second, and is gone for about a minute or so.
Comes back with two scrolls and sets them on the
table.
LIAM: I will take those. Thank you very much,
Herr Sol.
MATT: "My pleasure."
LAURA: Did you just call him "asshole?"
LIAM: That is Arschloch, so no.
SAM: Wait a minute, what does that mean?
LIAM: Which?
SAM: Nothing.
LIAM: Who's on first?
LAURA: Should we go?
TRAVIS: Let's get that thing in its box.
MATT: "Anything else you guys require, or can you
leave me to my reading?"
SAM: Whatcha reading?
MATT: "It's a collection of crazy tales about this
weird fella."
LAURA: What guy?
MATT: "It's The Daring Trials and Tribulations of
Sir Taryon Darrington. This guy's been all over
"the place. It's kind of wild."
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Wow. Ten episodes.
LIAM: Fiction, or...?
MATT: Oh, it's got to be fiction. (laughter) But
it's good fiction!
TRAVIS: Are you fucking kidding me?
LIAM: Well, sum it up for me. Give me the Tenser's
Floating Disk pitch.
LAURA: No!
TRAVIS: Oh my god!
MATT: Well, let me finish my book before I tell
you too much about it. Needless to say, he's got
this wild construct-looking friend called Dottie.
And apparently, according to this thing, there's
these powerful folks from over there in Tal'Dorei
that he's been meeting up with that keep messing
up every time they go on an adventure! Real thorns
in his side!
LIAM: We can relate. I'm a big reader. If you
finish that, I don't know if you are the kind of
fellow who likes to keep every book he reads
but--
MATT: I got a collection.
LIAM: Oh, ja, that makes sense. Okay. Well, I
will look for it elsewhere, thank you.
MATT: Sure, I got this shipped out to me from
Deastok. Perhaps if you are in that vicinity, see
that you get yourself a copy.
LIAM: Oh, okay.
TRAVIS: Bestseller or used book?
MATT: I had never heard of it until this, so
probably not that easy to find.
LIAM: Would you be able to put in an order for
this book for me?
MATT: I mean, I'm not really a book retailer.
LIAM: I understand, but you know many people. You
are obviously a very knowledgeable fellow who has
vast connections.
MARISHA: I bet we could go back to the Chastity's
Nook for that.
SAM: They will probably have it.
MATT: That is probably a place to look for a
book.
LAURA: It sounds like smut to me.
LIAM: It's a dirty book?
MATT: Not yet.
LIAM: All right. Well, I wait for your full
review. Thank you.
LAURA: You just wait.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: It's called "The Daring Tales."
SAM: Sounds like shite, Caleb. There are much
better books out there.
LAURA: Let's go. Come on, there are things that
need to be taken care of, Caleb!
LIAM: True. I got distracted. You know.
TRAVIS: Pumat, thanks for your time. We will not
be bothering you any longer.
LAURA: But we will be back because we like you so
much!
MATT: You are always welcome any time! All of us
are happy to see you come in and spend your
hard-earned money.
LAURA: Thank you.
SAM: Goodbye.
MATT: "Goodbye!" "Goodbye!" "Goodbye!" A little
hand comes out from the curtain in the back.
"Bye-bye!"
LAURA: Let's go! Come on, we've got to get back
to the Tap!
TRAVIS: We double dash back to the Tap.
SAM: To the Tap? Why are we going there now? Oh,
to the box thing!
LAURA: Yeah, and to look at the stuff Caleb
identified for us.
MATT: All right, so you guys return. Do you head
down to the basement?
LAURA: Yeah!
MARISHA: I make sure it's still there.
MATT: It's still there.
LAURA: Let's put it in the thing!
LIAM: So I put the box right down next to me and I
put my coat--
SAM: Is the skeleton alive?
MATT: No, the skeleton is still dead.
MARISHA: He didn't bring anything back to life,
that's good.
LIAM: Okay. So, this is better than it was before.
You have monster calves, do you want to carry this now?
LAURA: What, like, on me all the time?
LIAM: I am--
MATT: As he's holding it, placing it over the
box, there's still that undulating low hum and
grayish glow--
LAURA: I mean, I can carry this box with me all
the time, but don't you think it's weird to carry
around a box all the time?
TRAVIS: No.
LIAM: No, people carry boxes.
SAM: Can we put the box in the--?
TALIESIN: The bag?
SAM: Oh wait, we can't put the box in the bag.
TRAVIS: Why?
SAM: Crossing the streams.
MARISHA: But now we can put the dodecah-shit-ball
in the box and now the box in the bag, right?
MATT: Make an arcana check.
SAM: Still crossing the streams.
MARISHA: Still crossing the streams?
LIAM: The lead is just to protect this item from
divination.
TRAVIS: 22. Plus four.
LIAM: I am worried about crossing two planes of
existence. It might not be that at all, but it is
definitely not worth chancing.
MATT: The essence, as you're looking at this and
concentrating on this object, trying to get a
grasp on it now that you have a good moment to
look at it. The school of magic, or whatever the
source of the magic is here, escapes you. It seems
almost beyond or separate than some of the magics
that you've naturally learned through your
acquisition of spells and the pact that you had
made. But you don't get the sense that it's
extraplanar or anything that would constitute the
same level of danger that you think Caleb is
focused on.
LIAM: Tell me.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I say that.
LIAM: What, you have experience with things of
this nature?
TRAVIS: It seems like a different sort of arcana
than the type that I've seen.
LIAM: Okay, well, that's fine. I'm going to walk
about 200 feet away from you when you put it in
that bag--
LAURA: I put it in the bag.
(laughter)
MATT: Okay! I need you all to roll-- no, I’m
kidding.
(laughter)
MATT: Well, that's a TPK. You plop it in the bag
and it vanishes inside the pouch.
LAURA: How long does it take to take effect if we're
all going to die?
LIAM: It takes about two weeks, so I guess we’ll
find out.
LAURA: Eventually! I put my bag back on.
TRAVIS: What else we got?
LIAM: Oh yes, very good things.
SAM: Yes, the items!
LIAM: The daggers are just daggers, okay.
SAM: I'll take those.
LIAM: Who cares about daggers, honestly? But
this-- I hold up this longsword which I can barely
hold up. This would be good for either of you two.
I will let you decide. Fjord, here. This is a very
strong sword; it is very good against creatures.
That is for you to look at. Then these boots would
make anyone better, but I think that Beauregard
might benefit from them the most. I could be
wrong; I'm going to give them to Beau and let you
decide.
MARISHA: All right, all right.
LAURA: What is it? What are they? What do they
do?
MATT: The downside is longswords are not
finesse weapons, so you'd have to use strength
to utilize it.
TRAVIS: That's pretty dope.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Pretty dope.
TALIESIN: This is really bloody heavy.
LAURA: Is it--
TALIESIN: You could actually--
LAURA: Could I use that? A longsword?
MATT: Yeah, well, are you proficient with weapons
like a longsword? Your weapon proficiencies? My
Player's Handbook keeps disappearing from me.
SAM: Why do we only have one?
LIAM: There's another one, it's just gone
missing.
TALIESIN: I know someone who might really enjoy
this if you don't want it.
MARISHA: We have like 30 Handbooks around here
somewhere.
TALIESIN: We took them all outside and they stayed
there.
LAURA: Did I put that down? I might have written
my proficiencies--
SAM: How many weapons can you wield?
LAURA: Simple weapons!
MATT: Yeah, so you could not use a longsword.
TALIESIN: I think I know somebody who could really
enjoy this, and I'll hold on to it for a friend.
LAURA: Could Yasha use that?
TALIESIN: I think Yasha might get a kick out of
it.
LAURA: Oh! That’s great!
MARISHA: Wait, is she still a thing? She's going
to come back?
SAM: Gone forever!
TALIESIN: I've known Yasha a long time, she makes her
way back around.
TRAVIS: Although that greatsword she has is
mighty fine.
LIAM: I mean, we will probably never see her
again, that seems a little foolish to me.
LAURA: I hope she's still in the city, because
otherwise she's going to have a really hard time
trying to get back in.
TALIESIN: We'll eventually need a bath and we'll
find her again.
LIAM: Could one of us carry it until she returns?
Who could really use it?
LAURA: I don't think anyone can use it.
LIAM: Not you? You are so good with a sword!
TRAVIS: Yeah, certainly. I just have a preference with
mine. I'm just real comfortable with it. You know
when you get a feel for something, you don't want
to change it up too much.
TALIESIN: It’s worth holding onto.
LIAM: Of course, yes.
MARISHA: I respect her ability to handle her own
shit on her own time.
LAURA: What do the boots do?
MARISHA: They’re pretty great! So I strap on the
big, gothy boots--
TRAVIS: Big-ass tall Doc Martens.
MARISHA: Super tall Doc Martens, lots of little
fur-lined, lots of straps and zippers.
MATT: These boots are designed in a similar style
as to the armor of the Xhorhasian individual you
had fought.
LAURA: Is it kind of obvious?
MATT: No, not obvious. They’re made of a very dark
brown or black leather with studs and the tops of
them curl up into two spikes at the tip at each
side.
MARISHA: How do they look?
LAURA: Well, normally you're barefoot so it looks
pretty good. It makes your pants billow a little
weird but I like it.
MARISHA: Yeah, it’s hard to tuck your pants into
your boots.
LIAM: I thought you would like those. Was I right?
I was right, wasn't I?
MARISHA: They're pretty great. They add 1d8 to my
initiative roll.
LIAM: Once per day. So you can choose a moment
to get the jump.
MARISHA: Does anyone else feel like they might
benefit from these more than me?
LIAM: I mean, anybody would, but--
TALIESIN: I think I’m pretty good with this.
TRAVIS: My initiative bonus is zero, just saying.
(exaggerated cough) No, you keep them.
MARISHA: Your initiative bonus is zero?
LIAM: Yeah, but you know Beauregard really is the
most capable fighter in this group, at this moment
in time. What? That’s just the truth. Can you
handle the truth?
LAURA: Can you handle the truth?
MARISHA: I feel like Nott might be able to do some
good with these too, if she had them.
SAM: I defer to the wisdom of the group. We merely
follow your expert wisdom.
MARISHA: Okay, I’m sensing some passive
aggressive--
SAM: No! I am sincere!
TRAVIS: (whispering) Just smile and say, "Thank
you, Nott."
MARISHA: Thank you, Nott.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Very good.
MARISHA: Very good. Thank you. Thank you, Nott.
SAM: What is that crazy expression?!
(laughter)
SAM: I saw your gums for a second. It was freaky.
MARISHA: Don't patronize me, Nott.
LAURA: Ooh, I take out the Wand of Smiles and I
cast it at her.
MATT: Well, you have to make a saving throw.
MARISHA: Oh, do I?
SAM: I forgot we had that.
MARISHA: What kind of a saving throw?
MATT: Is it a wisdom saving throw?
LAURA: Charisma.
MARISHA: Oh, that's not good for me. Nope,
definitely not.
MATT: Yep, for the next minute, your face is
curled up into a Joker-like smile.
LIAM: Oh, I love making people happy.
LAURA: Now you look so happy! It's so wonderful!
MARISHA: (voice cracking) I am so happy!
TRAVIS: So we should-- ugh, just look at them!
TALIESIN: Ugh!
TRAVIS: We should probably do something. We still
have to wrap up this deception of ours.
LAURA: Oh, right. What are we supposed to do now?
MARISHA: (brightly) Go talk to the Gentleman, of
course.
LAURA: But wait--
TRAVIS: You sound like The General car insurance.
MARISHA: (singing) 1-800-General!
LAURA: What does The General have to do with--
SAM: The Gentleman.
LAURA: What does the Gentleman have to do with
this plan, though?
SAM: We were going to investigate Kara, who was
going to the bar that the Gentleman frequents.
LAURA: Oh, that's what it was. Okay, so we go to
the Evening Nip to investigate her, and then we
just happen to talk to the Gentleman, too?
SAM: If it happens, if it comes up.
LIAM: But also, we did not get the full catch-up,
Fjord. What about the remnants of-- I know
everything is verkakte. The High-Richter is
dead, that's half the job done in a way we did not
predict, but what about Lord Sutan? Did you talk
to Dolan? And are they going to get the
Crownsguard in there?
SAM: Oh yeah, we have to send the guards to find
the evidence! Oh god!
LIAM: We can't do anything. Dolan was going to
handle that part of this.
MARISHA: I feel like it's all gone to shit.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I think that's right, actually. I
forgot that part.
LAURA: I wonder if it's all a distraction, though,
for the big stuff.
MARISHA: I think that's exactly what this is.
TALIESIN: I'm wondering if the guards are already
there looking at the mysterious explosion that
happened in that house.
LAURA: Well, that was the High-Richter's house.
But Lord Sutan probably went home and noticed his
rug was missing.
LIAM: Absolutely noticed that the very expensive
magical rug is gone!
LAURA: And so did he go to the guards, or did he
go, "Oh shit, I was hiding something?"
TRAVIS: Did we plant something in Lord Sutan's
house, are they going to find the letter from--
SAM: And we stole a seal.
LIAM: Listen, this could all appear like the
Knights turned on the High-Richter. I thought we
wanted to get rid of Lord Sutan?
TRAVIS: We did.
LAURA: Yes, but we put evidence in his house. So
if he noticed that the rug was missing--
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: He goes to the Crownsguard to report a
robbery. Then they go in and they find the
evidence that he was actually trying to be behind
the attack that happened. So it actually is good
that we destroyed the rug, because it led the
guards into his house.
SAM: Hmm.
TRAVIS: I don't know if he would report a robbery
if he had a Rug of Attacking and you triggered it.
LIAM: And actual connections to the Myriad.
LAURA: But he-- Are you okay, Beau?
MARISHA: Smiling is so painful.
LAURA: It can be.
MARISHA: (groans)
LAURA: Should we go spy on his house, and see if
there are crownsguard in it?
SAM: Oh boy.
TRAVIS: We could certainly go by.
LAURA: Do you think they would let anyone back
into the Tri-Spire?
TRAVIS: Oh, shit, I forgot.
LIAM: It’ll flip the situation. Dolan, I believe,
was saying that with the High-Richter in place,
she was favoring Sutan. And now she is gone, Dolan
will hopefully take that seat. If he takes that
seat, Dolan is not going to protect Lord Sutan in
the way that he claimed that the High-Richter was.
TRAVIS: That's right.
LIAM: I don't know, maybe we walk away from the
whole thing. Discuss it as a possibility.
TRAVIS: We got paid already. How much did I get
paid? Because it was minus Kara's.
MATT: Minus Kara's, that would have been 628 gold,
21 silver, and 302 copper.
SAM: Oh, did we get paid?
TRAVIS: I did.
LAURA: For what?
SAM: Fuck that.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: So what's the plan?
LIAM: Well, here's the thing. If Dolan assumes that
seat-- we have no idea if that's going to happen,
but if Dolan does take that Richter's seat, Sutan,
if nothing happens to him, if no guards go into
Sutan's house, he knows that his rug is gone, he
realizes someone has been in his home, 100%, he
looks through the home himself, finds our fake
message from the Myriad or whoever, would he
retaliate on Dolan? Do we care?
MARISHA: Yeah, you're actually... yeah. I don't
think you're so far off. There's something weird
that's been striking me with Dolan this whole
time. He doesn't seem like he really has the
tenacity of someone who actually wanted that seat.
Maybe he was a pawn this whole time. That guy is
kind of a coward.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: And I mean this with all due respect --
the guy was kind of a coward!
LAURA: I am sad that I did that to her, because--
MARISHA: That's how you do it, right? No?
TRAVIS: I don't know if they'll send anything back
on Dolan, but we should find a way to get
crownsguard into Lord Sutan's place.
LIAM: Well, it was Dolan who said, I believe, he
had the relationship with Orentha, so he was going
to report this stuff to Orentha and have
crownsguard go in. Now, due to the circumstances
of the evening, we have missed the element of a
quick surprise. They did not rush in the way we
had hoped. So he's already realized somebody has
jacked his shit. I'm not worried, really, about
him finding us, but he had a bad night when he
came home.
TRAVIS: We can't have Dolan rat on him. Hmm.
LIAM: But if we don't give a shit about Dolan,
then there's no problem, really. But maybe we do?
MARISHA: I am really interested in this Kara girl.
I'm wondering if she's a puppet master throughout
this whole game.
TRAVIS: Let's try that.
SAM: So we'll go to the Evening Nip?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Let's try that.
MATT: Okay, so you guys are going to the Evening
Nip? All right. You make your way over to the
familiar, dirty, small, sunken dive bar, the same
two beefy-looking guards on the outside eyeing you
as you enter. You come inside. The same two
individuals sitting at the the same booth and the
far table. And there lies Clive Binz, the dwarf
with the half-burned beard. As you enter, he's
like, "Ah, good to see you again. What can I get
you?"
LAURA: Shit.
MARISHA: This is Clive the bartender? Hold. Pause.
It's something along the lines of-- Okay.
SAM: Are we gonna do this? Are we doing the
Gentleman?
MARISHA: This is Clive the bartender, right?
MATT: Yeah, Clive.
MARISHA: Yeah, we are. So Beau and Jester walk up,
and say--
LAURA: Hi.
MARISHA: 'Sup.
MATT: "Can I get you anything?"
MARISHA: I mean, I know I'd like a drink.
LAURA: Yes, I would like some milk.
MARISHA: But unfortunately we have no coin.
However, we are willing to offer many gifts.
MATT: "Right. Well, then. Take these gifts with
you." He turns around and looks at the rest of
you, and steps into the back room.
LAURA: Do we follow him?
SAM: I'm so scared right now.
MATT: Do you follow him?
TRAVIS: Yeah, we fucking follow him into the
room!
MATT: All right. You step into the back room of
this dive, and as you step inside, it's a storage
cupboard. There's shelves up there with various
bottles of liquor, wine, and ale. He's currently
pulling a small chain up on the corner. As he
does, you watch as a small trap door goes
(creaking), it winches up, and there's a stairway that
leads down. And he goes--
TRAVIS: Yep.
MARISHA and LAURA: Thank you.
SAM: Mazel tov.
MATT: As you all slowly descend down the stairs,
it closes behind you. You hear a few things
shift over it. You descend down the stairway, and
you begin to pick up the sound of soft music.
There's a gentle violin playing, and a lute or
some sort of small string instrument. This
staircase spirals downward onto the left, and as
it curves down for about 40 or so feet, it's
getting colder just from the subterranean depth,
that you're going from the warmer surface.
Eventually, you hear some voices and some
laughter, and a clink of glasses. As you curve
down, the light gets brighter from around the
corner, until suddenly you look into a stone-set
subterranean tavern. From floor to ceiling, it's
about 20 feet tall. You can see there are two
balconies that overlook it from the left side, and
one that's barely visible around the corner, as
the room opens up to the right of you. There's a
table immediately down from where the spiral
staircase ends, and there's a gruff-looking fellow
sitting there looking up as you enter. He looks
immediately defensive. The rest of the people in
there are drinking, and not immediately paying
attention. As you begin to descend the stairway,
who all’s going in?
LAURA: All of us.
MATT: All right. You all begin to descend to the
bottom of the stairs. There's maybe about a dozen
or so people in here, between the bartender,
folks, and you can see two people are playing
music on the upper balcony. There's laughter and
discussion, and there's a card game at the center
table. You see a maroon and dull grey robed person
arrive, but their body is covered with a dark
black, almost panther-like fur. Their face is
cat-like, with ears that curl up. This is a black
tabaxi that has turned around the corner, and
goes, "Halt, friends. I do not recognize-- Lucien?"
SAM: Who? What?
MATT: (incredulous) "You're alive!"
TALIESIN: Oh, sorry, friend, I've got one of those
faces people tend to recognize.
MATT: (gasping in disbelief) "Lucien!" She goes
forward and does a huge hug.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'll go with it.
MATT: And that's where we're going to end
tonight's episode!
(screaming)
TRAVIS: (shouting) Insight check! Insight check on
Taliesin! Insight check!
MATT: We'll come back to that.
That's a d10, that doesn't matter.
SAM, MARISHA, and TALIESIN: Lucien?!
LAURA: Lucien?! That's a cool name!
SAM: What?! Who's that?
TALIESIN: Don't know.
MARISHA: Who the fuck?
LAURA: Everybody's a liar!
LIAM: This is just the first layer of the onion.
There's eight more names to come!
SAM: He's actually a robot!
TRAVIS: Look at Taliesin right now. Just look at
him.
LAURA: You sneaky bastard!
TALIESIN: You fuckers don't know shit.
LIAM: You fake-name-making motherfucker!
MARISHA: How many names have you had?!
SAM: An hour ago you were telling me that I had to
trust you people! You lying fuckers!
MARISHA: No, we never said to trust us! We said
not to trust us specifically!
TRAVIS: I didn't say anything!
MATT: All righty. We'll pick up from that point
next week. Until then, we'll see some of you guys at
C2E2 in Chicago this weekend. Looking forward to
that! We'll be back on this next Thursday to see
where this goes.
TALIESIN: So excited.
MATT: (giggles) Until then, we love you guys. Have
a wonderful week, and is it Thursday yet? Good night!
[music]